Healing exercise for the self; the nature of shadow work; designing a space for healing; imagination and inspiration; precognitive experiences as catalyst; kidney stones.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. We greet each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator that resides with you all at this time, within each being, as you seek to know that truth. We thank you for coming to this meeting, for taking the time out of your busy days and schedules to seek the truth of your being, the nature of reality in which you move in the third density illusion. This is something that we have such appreciation for, where we know what a difficult time that third density is. You must deal with the veil of forgetting, forgetting the truth of all being One.

We would ask that you consider what we have to say today as we attempt to answer your queries, as being the best answer we can give. But if it does not ring of truth to you, to reveal to you something that you are remembering and not hearing for the first time, then please set it aside. Take only those words that ring of truth to you, and then we can speak more freely as we attempt to answer your queries.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query to which we may respond?

Q’uo, could you please offer a true healing exercise that anyone might be able to practice?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We look at all of the various means by which one may attempt to achieve the healing of the self that seems separate from all other-selves. So we have chosen the one which you may utilize in your meditations.

Look back upon your day where there is any difficulty with another person, with yourself, with a situation. Look upon that person, self, or situation as if it is a mirror. Whatever difficulty you have experienced then, see it in that mirror as a mirror of yourself. Forgive that self in the mirror, heal that self with the love of the Creator that flows through your heart into your entire being, revitalizing that which is you, the Creator, moving in a way in which it may know more of itself through your difficulties, your experiences that you feel need healing.

All of these experiences are means by which you may know yourself in a greater and greater degree, for you are all things. You are the Creator, and the difficulties you face require that you change your image of yourself, and change is painful. And yet, by realizing more and more of what you truly are, the Creator, you move forward a step on your spiritual journey each time that you can do this kind of healing. For your life path within the third density is a continuous journey of healing, step by step by step.

Is there a follow up query, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question, Q’uo, thank you. In this circle, there seemed to be discussion of shadow work. I was describing what I thought was collective shadow and there was other mention of individual shadow work, particularly in this time. Can you speak about that, the collective and the individual, particularly at this time of what I see as social unrest, as the shadow. That’s how I see it manifesting. Can you please talk about the transition time now and the work that we have to do with the shadow and the projections of it?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my sister. You have asked a most important query about the collective consciousness of your planet and its people as individuals and as groups. The shadow side of any self, individual or group, has as its origination some part of the self or the group that has been rejected in the past. Perhaps at a time in the early years of the self, where one was not sure of what one was experiencing, that caused fear, doubt, and the desire to survive. These types of programmings are what many, if not all, entities and groups on your planetary sphere are going through now in enhanced ways, magnified by the energies of the fourth density engulfing your planet for many years and increasing as time goes on.

These shadow portions of your being are valuable resources of energy, of power, of the ability to change your relationship with them. They are those portions that can have a greater strength to lend to your spiritual journey, for they have had to survive under conditions that were difficult when you were a child and you looked to survive, and created them as a place to put a portion of yourself that was not accepted, not recognized and not able at that time to have a conscious effect upon your life.

However, the unconscious effect can often be experienced as those voices in your head, in your mind, that say things that you wish they would not say, that give you the impulse to say [to yourself], “That is incorrect, do not say that again.” And yet, if you are aware that they are a part of you and you accept them, you take them in your arms and in your heart and make them part of you, their strength of survival can help you move forward on your spiritual journey as you invite the dark portion to be a part of your seeking of the light and the love of the One Infinite Creator.

This is something that everyone goes through, but most do not know that, unless they are awakened spiritual seekers of truth. And what happens instead is there are many wars, divisions, subjugations, anger, frustration, one to another, group to group, nation to nation. And until this can be seen by those who experience it, there can be no growth for any individual group or nation. They are food for your growth, grist for the mill, shall we say. Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we will transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and now greet this circle through this instrument. We would, as is our ritual with this instrument, offer some preliminary words through him to allow his instrument to settle into our flow of thoughts. We reiterate our appreciation and joy at being invited to join this circle of seeking. We have been with you during your ritual of the heart that you call the round robin and gaze upon the intrepid seekers present with awe and admiration at the richness of the sharing and the desire to come together and share and compare your experiences within the third density—which is, as we understand it, currently a very difficult and chaotic place to engage with as a spiritual seeker.

There was discussion of difficulties and institutions and tensions that are sensed by those present in the circle within the larger collective community of your planet. The uniqueness of your experience at this time cannot be emphasized enough. What a joy it is for you to be here with an open heart so that you can offer your own light and your own love to a world calling desperately for it. For you to be able to bring your authentic self into this circle and carry it with you on your journey is more powerful than you can imagine.

And as you engage with not just the lightness and the joy and beauty and happiness of your world, but also with the difficulties and confusions and pain, bringing it all into you and accepting it, you begin to build your own kind of institution in time/space. And by coming together and sharing as you have done today, you continue with your fellow other-selves to build upon this institution more and more so that it becomes a kind of refuge or structure in its own right, in which you can enter more easily and more readily to tabernacle with the self that is the Creator.

And by continuing to build upon this sacred institution, it provides the space for others who may one day find themselves upon the same journey and discover it for themselves. And the work that you have done will be available to them so that they can engage with their own sense of peace within it, alongside you. We commend you with this task, and are with you as you continue on your journeys and building this beautiful sanctuary of love upon your planet.

At this time, we would ask if there is another query to which we may respond? We are Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo. We are working with an architect to create plans for our new house. We want to create a place that promotes healing and spiritual growth. I’m wondering if there is a shape that would facilitate the sort of energy we want to generate. To create a sacred space, for instance, is a peaked roof important for these things because it’s like, a little bit like a pyramid, for instance? Or does the physical shape of the house not matter at all?

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother. And we find this quite an interesting query, for it merges what seems to be a relatively mundane task of designing a dwelling and incorporates the love and wisdom that you have accumulated on your own journey into that task. And we admire your attempt to be mindful and deliberate in creating a space, not just for yourself but for your other-selves, to promote the healing of individual and collective.

We may say in simplest terms that indeed the shape and the deliberation upon such shapes can be influential in promoting the intention that you have stated. We would point out first, that the simple mindfulness that is displayed within this query, the expression of a desire to incorporate your heart into the design of such a place, is itself a type of blessing. And if you focus and concentrate on that desire, meditate on it and bring it into your heart and allow it to speak to you, you could discover yourself through the faculties of inspiration and imagination, aspects and shapes and different ways of designing and building that will promote this desire.

For you are powerful, and you are the Creator. All that you seek is within you, and this is a primary aspect of what we wish to impart upon you, in that the seeking of such answers can be done inside, in your own heart. We would not wish to replace such an activity and such seeking with our own guidance. And thus we emphasize this as our primary piece of advice for you, to allow your own imagination to be primary in this design, and allow the whims of your heart to manifest within these plans.

We may speak further though, for there is an interesting relationship between the geometrical aspects of your space/time and how you can design various structures and shapes, and how that affects the intelligent energy, or what you may call prana, or even just the psychological influence that can be imparted upon those entering such a space and upon those working within such a space.

In this query, you referenced the pointed structure of the roof or ceiling. We would offer simple clarity that any such structure that arrives at a point near the top or a dome can act as a type of funnel for intelligent energy. And this can be incorporated into various rooms or spaces in which you wish to be deliberate in emphasizing and exacerbating the already innate intelligent energy and life force within yourself and within others.

We would advise caution in such a design and ask that you review information that we of the Confederation have given through this group and other groups as to the specific geometrical aspects of what you call the pyramid. [We] would further advise that designing a simpler type of dwelling or structure that does not create the highly magnified and highly intensified types of funneling of intelligent energy and light, unless you come to the realization of your own desire that you wish to dedicate yourself to learning and understanding the very subtle and influential aspects of pyramidal design. The funneling aspect can be utilized in a simpler but very much effective way.

Another aspect of choosing what shapes to incorporate and what type of geometry to build into the structure can revolve around not just how such shapes influence the flow of intelligent energy within such a structure, but also how shapes and environments can create a subconscious or unconscious influence upon those who are present. There are many ways that geometry and flow of space/time shapes can cause an individual to enter a certain state of mind, a certain type of receptivity that would be effective and allow for more open healing and more open tabernacle with those energies sought within such a space.

We would not, in this case, guide specifically, but rather advise that in conjunction with our previous suggestion of seeking within your own imagination and inspiration, to become familiar with what has been called, among your peoples, sacred geometry, or color theory, or other types of visual esthetic practices that are known to have sacred qualities, that have influence upon the mind, body, and spirit of an individual.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

Well, thank you for that. Actually, I do have a follow up. I wanted to ask you to explore active imagination a little more. One person in this circle recalled his use of active imagination very vividly and had a beautiful experience with Jesus. I’m not necessarily looking for that, but I’m interested in the idea of consciously imagining something that can lead you to a revelation, like a sacred shape that would be conducive to your own growth. Can you say a little more about how we can imagine in this way?

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother. We appreciate the opportunity to further explore the faculties of imagination, for they are indeed some of the most powerful tools available to you as seekers within the third density. The aspect of your own mind that you have labeled imagination is, in many ways, a very direct relationship between your conscious mind and your unconscious mind.

However, we would emphasize that [utilizing] what has been called “active imagination,” particularly in the sense of receiving inspiration and guidance, requires a very patient and deliberate practice of becoming familiar with the self, of entering into the silence of your inner heart. [It requires] regularly practicing silence so that you can, upon your own desire, in your own time, become a sort of blank slate and observer that allows your conscious mind to rest and what you might call your ego to be set aside and to settle so that you may observe those gifts given to you by the unconscious mind. Because the intervention of the conscious mind and the ego that wishes to understand, that attempts to discern and judge and pick apart and package your experiences in certain ways, often shuts down the faculty of active imagination as you have described it.

And so developing this prerequisite state of silence and receptivity and observation is paramount to utilizing imagination in this way. Once this prerequisite is established and you are able to, upon your own whim, enter such a state, then there is further work to be done in patience and receptivity. For the relationship with the unconscious mind, if it is to be realized in its fullest potential, is not one of direct access and immediate answers, but rather a long courtship of patience and back and forth, developing a knowledge of your unconscious mind’s own language and symbolism and the desires that it holds. This is, in its own right, a long and deliberate process that happens after one can achieve a certain state of inner silence. Once one is able to slowly develop this relationship, then the active imagination becomes very much what you might call the waking vision.

The reality of what you experience within the state of imagination can seem in many ways more real than the reality you experience in your normal state of consciousness. The truths accessed through such, not just about you and your own journey and your own desires, but about your relationship with the collective and with the Creator, can blossom in ways that cannot be captured with words.

This is an incredibly helpful yet disciplined process, and we would encourage any seeker whose interest is piqued by these words and explanations to begin the process of cultivating that inner silence and developing the slow, patient, steady and loving relationship with one’s own unconscious mind.

Is there further follow up to this question, my brother?

No, that was fascinating. Thank you, Q’uo.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query to which we may respond?

I have a query, Q’uo. I have been experiencing precognition since I was a child. That is the ability to see, hear, or know about a future event. I have tried to even use that knowledge to change an outcome, but was unsuccessful, so I do not seem to be able to use such knowledge to alter any outcome. My question is, can this catalyst of inherited precognitive ability be used for positive polarization, and if so, how?

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my sister. Indeed, such a query of personal experience of precognition can have layers, and we are glad to explore some basic layers with you. But [we] would emphasize that such a personal gift and personal experience is indeed set by design preincarnatively, and that you came into this life with the plan to have this gift and to receive these experiences for a reason, and that reason is yours alone to discover.

However, we can answer in the affirmative that such experiences can indeed be utilized for positive polarization. We would start with a most basic understanding, in that these experiences given to you have a certain effect, emotionally, spiritually and even physically. Whether this is through the perception of the future event itself, or in through how you, as a co-Creator, attempt to relate to these visions and this knowledge of future events.

All of these things generate within you a certain catalyst, a type of charge that is, in fact, a desired aspect of your journey. In order to receive this catalyst and utilize it for the transformation that it contains, we would again emphasize patience and a deliberate process of coming to understand this catalyst over a period of time. For such a planned catalyst that delivers such unique and interesting experiences does not offer its gift so immediately, but rather does its work throughout the lifetime. And the answers that you are seeking in terms of what this gift can be used for and how you are to relate to it will come with time, so long as you are continuing to express your desire to utilize this catalyst, to bring it into the heart, and to discover how it can be related to with love, and what love it is attempting to offer to you.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

Thank you, Q’uo, very much. I have a brief follow up. It would seem that the purpose of such precognitive ability, in some cases, is the simple knowing or receiving knowledge of an event which is unalterable, that is no action may alter the outcome. I was wondering if you could speak more to this and the catalyst that that offers.

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my sister. We can speak somewhat to the dynamics behind this aspect of the precognitive knowledge that is given to you in a couple of ways. One being that such precognition, from our perspective and in our understanding, relies upon the notion of possibility/probability vortices. This concept implies that not every vision that you receive is necessarily 100% guaranteed to unfold. However, there are probability/possibility vortices that are so powerful, have such a weight of gravity within your time/space that they are virtually inevitable in some ways. The capacity to sense only the most powerful of these vortices can be explored in your own attempt to understand what it is you are sensing and experiencing with such precognition.

Another aspect of this is also that the mere fact of observing such a precognitive event may itself contribute to that probability/possibility vortex, and that your knowledge of it actually makes it even more likely to unfold despite any attempts that you have to change it. This is, from our perspective, in your case, a central aspect of this catalyst for you. And the desire to possibly change what has, you may say, been foretold is a question that you may take into the heart, and we believe, discover some guidance therein.

Is there another follow up to this query, my sister?

Thank you very much, Q’uo. I greatly appreciate your response. A very brief follow up: does such knowledge come to a being with this ability from another entity, or perhaps intelligent infinity, or perhaps the collective unconscious, or what would be the source?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of this query, my sister. We cannot answer in all cases, for the creation is infinite, and such experiences may involve many aspects, including all of those that you have listed within the query and many more. We would say that most normally the perception of such future events as you would label them, is an aspect of the individual’s capacity to access time/space as we have described it and to witness the possibility/probability vortices therein. And thus, in most cases, it is somewhat individual.

However, in accessing time/space in this way, there is a sort of signal to those entities who pay attention to such openings into time/space. This can be positive, or what you may call negative, or neutral, and a practice of discernment and attempting to protect such these experiences is recommended for any seeker who is finding themselves on a similar journey.

At this time, we would take leave of this instrument and to transfer the contact to the one known as Jim. We are Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and am once again with this instrument. We would ask at this time if there might be a final query?

Can I ask one? I wrote it down so I sound somewhat intelligent. Okay, I’ve had a few kidney stones in the past. The pain is debilitating, to say the least, and almost enough to drive me insane. I kind of live in fear of it, and almost obsessively drink water to prevent it from happening. According to the Law of One teachings, this is a catalyst I have chosen to experience. I struggle to see anything positive in it. I think it has made me tougher, and I feel more able to appreciate life when I don’t have a kidney stone, but I still have a hard time seeing how such intense pain is truly helping me. Could you please give me some guidance?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The kidney stones are located in the portion of your physical body which is associated with the orange ray center. This center deals with your ability to accept yourself at a very basic level, and also use that acceptance of yourself to relate to another person or another person, one at a time. The one to one relationships within your life experience.

Within your life experience, we would suggest that you look to see where there have been entities that you have related to in this one to one way which have caused what you call the kidney stones. The focus upon these relationships that have been painful, we cannot tell you what relationships they are. This is for you to discover. If you would look at your experience of the kidney stones in this way of knowing that there is some kind of disharmony, either with yourself or an other-self, and meditate upon what you might find by looking for these disharmonies, then the answer for why you are experiencing such pain from your kidney stones might become more known to you.

Is there a follow up query, my brother?

No, I’ll go into my heart and try to find it.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you for your query and your desire to go into your heart for that is where all of your answers lie.

At this time, we would thank each present once again for being here with us and for calling us to join your circle of seeking and to partake in the love and the light that you have generated. Not only by your questions, but by your round robin sharing and by your very essence your being that is one with the Creator. And each has shared so much of that love and light of the One Creator with this circle that this is a kind of pyramidal light moving into the infinity of the creation. The angels rejoice, the Father, Mother, God, Creator of all, sings the heavenly song, “Hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah.”

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving you as we found you, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai, adonai vasu borragus.

