Topics: Finding practices for realizing oneness with the Creator; reflections on letting go; the nature of peace and fourth density.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo. We greet this circle of seeking in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. And what a joy it is to join this circle of seeking in this space yet again, for it has become familiar to us. Much joy has been shared upon these grounds, and our ability to join you increases and becomes easier as you dance together in this rhythm of love and joy during your gathering. This space holds a certain vibration, blessed not just by your own seeking, by your own love, but by others who have traveled here and have engaged in their own forms of love and seeking.

It is truly a sacred space, and we encourage you, as you hear our words, to absorb and to offer yourself to the space, so that it may be further sanctified by your own seeking. And, indeed, as you have danced together through your days of gathering, we have been honored to witness this dance and to join you in this dance, for as your thoughts have been upon the same love that we ourselves seek, and your intentions focused upon those words and concepts that we have offered through circles such as this one, we are called to you and are able to merge with you in this dance, and we all dance together.

We would emphasize that we are dancing and walking this path together alongside you. We do not wish to present ourselves as authorities or instructors intended to be listened to without question, to be obeyed, to be [perceived as] offering knowledge from on high, as it were, that should not be evaluated. We ask our typical request of this circle, and that is that you utilize your own discernment to your best degree as you hear and read and contemplate our words. We ask that you only take those words that have some value to you, whatever that value may be, whether they resonate or challenge.

But if these words serve to hinder you upon your path, if you find any issue or stumbling block in what we share, we encourage you to leave it behind without question. For it is our greatest desire to offer our service and our aid, and we do not wish to be a hindrance to you upon your journey. We cannot say what that journey holds for you; we can only report upon our own journey and offer our own perspective. We have, indeed, walked a bit further than those within the third density, but each path is unique, and we only offer our perspective upon that journey.

If you do us this favor, then this allows us to speak more freely without as much concern for abridging your own free will. We ask that you accept the responsibility of that free will in listening to our words. This allows us to dance with you ever more closely and walk with you ever more further upon this path.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin. We are Q’uo.

Q’uo, we have a query. Could you please suggest practices which might help us to realize oneness with the Creator and perhaps add insight in how we might alleviate spiritual pride or arrogance?

We are Q’uo and are aware of the query, my brother. Indeed, we can offer suggestions. And we would start with our most common, our favorite suggestion of a particular practice. You may say, and as this instrument might say, we would give you one guess as to which practice this might be. And that is, of course, our constant refrain of suggesting the prerequisite to all other practices, and that is the meditation. Whatever form that may take for you, the emphasis here is that engaging in a regular—preferably daily—practice of meditation allows the mind to settle, allows the dust and the debris that cloud the perception of the mind to come to a stillness, allowing the light within to shine ever brighter through your mind so that your own beings, your own reality, your own connection to the Creator, and, indeed, your own identity as the Creator may be ever more perceivable to you.

This practice also allows for the chaos and the catalyst of your ever-difficult density to be absorbed by your mind/body/spirit complex. It allows your experiences to be taken into the heart, to sink ever more deeply into your being, so that you, as a seeker, may take these experiences and transform them and allow them to transform you. It will allow you to apply the love and the light of the Creator within you to these experiences so that more and more they may be seen for what they are. And that is a gift of the Creator to the Creator of experience, so that your perceptions, your desires, your seeking, turns ever more closely to the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.

We understand that those who are familiar with our words through this circle of seeking, through this group, may be somewhat tired of this constant refrain, but we must always emphasize the vast importance of this practice. For if we are to suggest any other type of practice or any other method of seeking, this must be the first step upon that journey.

To turn more to the purpose of this question, the intent of the questioning, we would offer a slant upon this question, [as] we of Q’uo often hesitate to offer very specific types of practices. There are various reasons for this hesitation. One being that each entity is infinitely unique, and there is no particular practice that can be generally or universally applicable upon the life path of each seeker. And thus to offer particular specific practices reduces our ability to speak to you as seekers, as a group of seekers. However, we can offer certain perspectives, certain ideas upon the idea of practice, upon the request for specific practices. And within our words you may find an ability to develop a practice from our suggestions, or you may develop a certain discernment and use our words to help you discover certain practices of your own.

This discovery is quite important. For upon your third-density planet, there are many, many lineages, many types of seeking, many groups who have made much progress in the notion of practices that can unify you, that can bring you to a closer awareness of the One Infinite Creator. It is beneficial as seekers within this third density, as human beings, whether you are a wanderer from elsewhere or native to this planet, that these lineages of human thought and human spirituality be recognized and honored. And we believe that each present and each who becomes aware of our words may find deep, rich, fulfilling practice in communities upon your planet if you but search for them. If you make the request to the Creator in your meditation and in your prayer to come into contact with those practices that would aid you upon your journey, you will discover them.

And if you dedicate yourself alongside your practice of meditation to these practices, they will yield fruit beyond your imagination. For though chaotic and difficult as your density may seem, there has been a deep transformation that has occurred throughout the ages upon your planet. The environment of difficulty has allowed certain groups and cultures to truly dive deeply into their hearts in order to discover such practices which they share, sometimes openly and sometimes secretly. But either way, if you discover these, we would recommend dedicating yourself fully to such a practice.

To offer some general understanding of what we believe is beneficial about any type of practice of spiritual seeking upon your planet, we would start with one that we believe is of utmost importance, and that is attempting to discover a practice, or develop a practice, that does not necessarily seek to bring about pure happiness or pure joy [in order] to avoid those things that bring pain and suffering and discomfort to you.

Indeed, these things may feel very nice, and it is quite natural and understandable that you, as seekers within the third density, would seek to avoid such pain and such discomfort. If you discover yourself seeking such practices in order to avoid such pain, do not judge yourself. For this is a very natural response, and it is part of your journey. And it is a part of most seekers journeys to discover that they are hiding from such discomfort, that they are avoiding such pain, but in doing so, you are avoiding some of the greatest gifts that the Creator has to offer within your density.

This question posed asks for practices to help bring you into a greater awareness of oneness with the Creator. And we point out that in experiences such as your gathering this weekend, it is quite easy to feel that oneness. Joy and peace and love flows so naturally. And of course, this is beneficial, and we encourage you to hold on to this flow of joy, to embrace it and allow it to fill you. But if this is the only thing sought, then there is much lost within your third density, and the progression and deeper awareness of the Creator will remain only in potential. It will not be realized within the heart of self.

So we would encourage any practice that you engage in be a practice that, as this instrument has heard, “leans in to the sharp points,” that seeks to engage with the discomfort and the pain and the suffering of your density so that you may come to a greater understanding of its purpose. So that you may discover that, though it does not appear to be a gift, it is, indeed, a grand gift that, once you receive it and are able to perceive it for what it is, you will discover within it the love of the One Infinite Creator.

This love is not always apparent. This is by design. This is why we encourage you to seek this difficulty and to seek this type of catalyst. For it is where the most growth, the most so-called progression can be had for the spiritual seeker. For in engaging with such pain, engaging with such discomfort, and seeking the love within it, you learn more about the many infinite faces of the One Infinite Creator, and you become the portal for the Creator to shine Its love and Its light upon such experiences.

There has been much pain and much suffering within your lives and upon your planet, and this is where the love of the Creator is needed most. And as you seek oneness with the Creator, we encourage you to contemplate to what end you are seeking such oneness. If it is simply to experience love for the sake of escaping this difficulty, then there is much more being left upon the table, you may say.

Beyond this, we also encourage to seek within any practice that you discover one that does not chastise the self for failures. One that does not hold the self to standards that, if unmet, [result in] some pain or punishment inflicted upon the self; where judgment is rendered due to some sort of failure to discover that love to break through to that so-called next level. For in this type of judgment, this type of self-flagellation, much harm and much distortion can be inflicted upon the journey of the mind/body/spirit complex, not just within the present lifetime but upon many lifetimes. You may find that such judgment prolongs the necessity of experience within the third density.

But again, we encourage you, if you have discovered your own self judging the self, to have compassion for all aspects of the self in that dynamic: the judger and the judged. For all things are proper for the entity in their time. And in discovering the judgment that you render towards yourself, you discover judgment that you might render towards another. And in healing and accepting those aspects of the self that are judged, that are seen as wrong and as failures, you may then turn that perspective outward and more easily discover love within the so-called or so-perceived failures of others. You will recognize upon your own journey that each other-self has a similar journey with similar difficulties.

If you can forgive yourself, then your ability to forgive others, to accept others, becomes more natural, and thus the love of the Creator shines not only in your heart but is able to be shined outwards. You may then act as a catalyst and an agent for the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator that may accept all, that may love all. And in doing so, in discovering this ability to release judgment and attachment within any practice, within any experience, you become more closely aligned with your true nature, and that nature is the One Infinite Creator.

In this query, there also was a reference, you may say, to a certain tendency towards third-density seekers to have a type of spiritual arrogance. Indeed, we find this not only common but nearly universal for seekers within the third density. For it is simply a construct impressed upon the seeker by your environment, by your societies and cultures. This is such a powerful density that it is almost impossible to avoid those things that build up the so-called ego that make one overly confident once they have discovered a type of strength and power within themselves to successfully seek the One Creator.

But we would emphasize that this is often not necessary to be [overly] concerned about; for the seeker who has consciously and, in their heart, truly dedicated themselves to seeking the One Creator, to serving others, puffs up their pride and holds arrogance, then this is quite a strong invitation to the Creator to bring about such catalyst which might humble one.

So our primary suggestion for grappling with the ideas of pride and arrogance and so-called ego within the life path of a seeker, within the practices that you may find and utilize upon your path, is to allow all desires. Allow yourself to express yourself as you feel in your heart. And then accept what catalyst may come and discover within that catalyst what it is teaching you. For at such a point in the journey of a seeker, that catalyst will be offering you humility and the opportunity to become humble. Such catalyst will become unavoidable in the life path of the seeker, and we cannot offer direct suggestions for how to avoid this, you may say. The only way to truly grapple with such pride is to allow the love of the Creator to bring about your own experience of humbleness through the difficulty of your experiences.

This is not an easy environment for any seeker. Your third density in particular carries the quality of intensity that we find to be uncommon among the planets that we work with, and we cannot express the admiration that we have for any seeker who discovers the calling within their heart to seek and discover the One Infinite Creator within the self and within your other-selves upon your planet. For there are many, many influences that toss you about, that beat you upon the head, that make life painful and difficult and distract you from your ability to maintain a focus upon this desire.

For you to have discovered this calling within you, and dedicate yourself to it, for you to truly seek to serve the One Infinite Creator through serving others, is incredible, truly incredible, and we offer our own support. It is available to you if you would ask. In much of our own effort, we concentrate upon sending love and light to your planet, and in particular to seekers such as yourselves who may need, what you may call, a boost, support, and wind beneath your wings so that you may notice your life path for what it is; so that you can remain centered within your heart and allow your experiences to move through you, allow your experiences to engage with your whole being, with your thoughts and with your emotions, with your activities and with your practices. It truly is an honor to witness and to join you in this journey, and we cannot express our gratitude enough to be with you at this time.

For now, we would take leave of this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Trisha. We are Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument. As spoken through the instrument prior, we are of immense gratitude to share this particular circle of seeking with you today, to witness the love and connections you have fostered in your time together, and to see the bubbling of insight and inspiration you provide for one another in your shared space. We feel much honor to be invited to stand alongside you at this time to share in your memories as you create them in this density of illusion and to play but a silent and distant part in your own incarnational journey.

And so it is with that gratitude and honor that we would ask if there is a question with which we may speak?

Yes, thank you. How could we learn to truly let go?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware and appreciate this query, my sister. This particular topic, this action or idea of letting go is admittedly a broad one. For letting go can mean many things. Letting go can be equivalent to acceptance. It can be the releasing of expectations. It can be the forgiving of an other-self. And it can be the allowing of a loss or the motivation for a movement forward. And so we may speak to this term broadly in hopes that some gem may be mined for those who are interested in discerning.

To let go can be attempted and established by various means, each unique to each seeker. As mentioned by the previous instrument through which we spoke, the initial step is always meditation. However, we would add an additional first step, and that being the one of intention. Going into your meditations with an intention to understand and to invite the release of that which you feel you are attached to, to that which you feel is your expectation, to that which you feel is your hope.

Setting that intention is a most powerful first step, for it lights your journey as you move forward. Though the lighting may seem dim, it is clear in your moments of silence. Setting that intention and knowing fully what that intention is, what letting go means to you in this moment, what specifically is it that you are seeking. When you have set your compass to that direction, finding that destination on your incarnational map, you may go into silence and find the various coordinates, the various twists and turns.

The insight may come to you that is needed to help you find your way along that journey. However, these insights, these pieces of potential clarity are but one of many, many pieces that may help inform you, that may help guide you. We would say that listening to the intuition, feeling what the self truly desires is important in guiding you.

We would say that the understanding of why—what is the motivation behind this desire to letting go—is also important. For when you are able to see the reasoning behind a desire to release something, perhaps you may find that you have already released it. Perhaps you may find that there is nothing to release. Perhaps you may find the next step to effect an actual release. Discovering what it is within you that tells you that something needs to be let go of can be a monumental task, but it can be a most informative one.

Additionally, we would say that by noticing and understanding where one positions oneself in that dynamic—be it the desire to release past trauma, the desire to release a love lost, the desire to release expectation of an unmet goal, or the desire to simply distance oneself from perhaps an individual or an event or an environment—[you can] see what part you play in this, for you are your own Creator creating your creation. “How am I creating this creation in which I allow something to feel as if it is binding?”

And we say that not to devalue your experience, for that sensation of being, shall we say, encumbered by this burden, by trauma, by unmet expectation, by love, and by loss, is valid. It is true. It is, at times, uncomfortable, perhaps painful. But seeing yourself as your own Creator, as your own artist painting this mass portrait or landscape in which you dance, setting your stage, selecting your players, you may see how divine this whole experience is and may find a way to notice how that which has felt as a chain to you may be broken.

And how those chains may be broken can also vary infinitely. Perhaps forgiveness is your means of cutting those wires. For instance, if it is an individual, a painful memory that feels as though it is holding you down, then witnessing that other-self, witnessing that memory, with much grace and patience, seeing yourself reflected in that other-self, seeing yourself reflected in that situation—understanding that there will be many opportunities for missteps, many opportunities for learning to love, for learning more about oneself and other-self—and allowing that space, appreciating that opportunity to learn that lesson, and seeing the truth, the reality that underlies all of this, that there is but one, you may find an inroad to forgiveness, placing oneself in another’s shoes.

We would also say that acceptance may be a means for cutting those binds, for releasing. Having gratitude may be a form or an avenue, we may say, for acceptance. In the example that there was an unmet expectation, a goal not met, seeing the larger reality, the greater environment: how has that unmet goal not served you? Has it not motivated you or taught you? Has it not inspired you to perhaps walk in a new direction, or fanned the flames underneath you to pursue it further?

Acceptance of this monumental gift, as painful as it may be, can bring light to that situation, can allow you to, instead of feeling bound by it, feel lifted by it. Much like you are on eagle’s wings, seeing the gift that it truly was, and that there is nothing to release outside of yourself.

We would also suggest the universal option for all experience, and that is love. Let us say that you have had experiences, as we have mentioned prior, of trauma, of pain, love lost, unmet expectations. Find love. Find grace for yourself. See the beauty. As our friends of Ra had said, note the seeming coincidences that have brought you to that moment. 1 Are they not divine? Love that which you felt bound to, that which you felt [to be] heavy. Invest love in that, hold it with love and appreciation.

If necessary, literally visualize yourself imbuing it with love, much like a balancing exercise. Allow it to instead of being filled with the weight of pain, to be lifted with the airiness of true, unconditional acceptance, love and gratitude. Envision it blowing into a balloon. You are investing all of this energy, appreciation, support, and genuine—and we must emphasize this, genuine—love for all that you have been given in this need of release. Push that out into the universe and watch it soar. Watch it take you higher. See how it continues to inspire, and how it has made you who you are on your journey. And from that lofted position, you may look down, as a spaceship may look down upon your planet and see how far you have come.

Were it not for that which has bound you for so long to the ground, you may not have found the ability to soar high above. And what a gift to have that perspective, to see your strength, to see your resilience, to see your imperfect perfection. And how each step was so designed, each folly, each painful moment was intentionally placed for you to be where you are in this moment and to inspire you to continue walking forward, to continue seeking that light.

My friends, that which you need to let go of will continue to present itself, perhaps in new ways, perhaps as new catalyst. And always the lesson is love and acceptance, forgiveness and gratitude. To hold it with much honor and humility, to see it for its true worth, this gem, this opportunity of experience, this avenue for growth. And when you release that power that it has held over you as this negative thing, this challenge—and again it is a challenge—seeing it for the beauty and the rightness of it, all those locks break open, those chains fall at your feet, and your wings sprout.

All that [you] will have to let go of will ultimately serve you, has served you, and will continue to serve you. There is no step forward that is not ultimately informed by everything you have left behind. And, my friends, there is only one way. Your walk will always be forward. So with much gratitude, look back at all that you have left behind and look forward with anticipation for what it is next you may encounter.

And when there is that next moment to truly let go, walk forward with gratitude and confidence. Walk forward with much grace and patience for yourself. And know always that you are surrounded by a supported universe. You cannot make a mistake, my friends. You truly cannot. Are there surprises? Of course. Will there be pain? Absolutely, that is part of your journey here. But you cannot not be supported. You merely must call for assistance, be it ourselves, be it your higher self, and most importantly, be it your own self, knowing the true power within you as an extension of the Creator to create your next experience, your next moment. Trust in that and stand with full faith as you take your next step.

My friends, it has been such an honor to speak to you, to be with you, to share what insight we can on this topic. To say that we are proud would perhaps come off as patronizing or condescending, and so perhaps what we would say would be that we are just so inspired. We hold you with much love, and we learn so much from the humility, from the active and motivated work you are embarking upon on this planet and in this incarnation. We are ever thankful to be a part of that and to witness that, and we are so thankful to share every step of that journey.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and with much, much gratitude, transfer our contact to the one known as Gary. We Are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

Greetings, our friends, in the love and in the light of the One Creator. We are again those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we speak to you as a you, from us as an us, but we do so grounded and rooted in an unbreaking understanding of oneness. We play the game of relativity and manyness to the fullest extent, with full hearts transmitting as messengers of the One our humble thoughts to your humble ears in the context of knowing that, in truth, we are not separated. We are one with you. We are one with all things. We are one with the Infinite Creator, and you, our friends, are one.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query to which we may offer our thoughts. We are Q’uo.

Yes, there is a question, Q’uo. And the question is, do we need to attain global peace on Earth in order for Earth to transition to fourth density? And what spiritual principles would be involved when we deal with questions like this?

We thank you for vibrating this question, our friend, and we stop for a moment to offer our gratitude to hear your voice spoken once again in this sacred circle of seeking, as your vibrations are familiar to us.2

We would be glad to speak to this question seeking the relationship, causal or otherwise, between peace on a global scale and the emergence of the true color green-ray density of the new Earth; that Earth which is of that vibration which we have described as love and understanding; that Earth which is waiting now to be born fully but which is held back by one thing.

That one thing is not external to this world. That one thing is not a mechanical feature of this transition from a third to a fourth density. That one thing lives within the hearts of your peoples. It is your collective vibration in its position on that spectrum that may move from a unified vibration—unified in mission, in purpose, in beingness—to fragmented and disintegrated in its purpose, and mission, and understanding of itself.

If we were to ask those in this circle where they may place upon this spectrum the collective vibration, the planetary vibration of your peoples, we feel it likely that most would position that vibratory rate, in this thought exercise, perhaps closer to the dis-integrated. But [you would do this] with hope for change, with signs appearing about change, and with struggle in the attempt to reconcile [on one hand] that which the heart knows and wants to believe, that which the self feels they have incarnated here to serve and to support, with [on the other hand] the headlines of the day, the flood if not tsunami of news, and information, and stories that reach your sensory apparatus with evidence of the disharmony, of mistreatment between peoples, of misunderstanding, and so forth.

And thus you may struggle attempting to reconcile these different visions of your world with that spiritual vision which you may at times need, or feel that you need, to guard, lest it confront or be squashed by an uncaring world seemingly bent upon mutual harm, coldness, and that which blocks the flow of unconditional love through the heart.

Yet, whether that is a fire which burns within the heart for a state of global peace, or it is an ember hidden beneath a disappointed and exhausted, and at times, demoralized self that will not be extinguished, there is yearning for this peace. And you wish to know its connection to the fourth density and its emergence. And we would say, our friends, that peace is indeed that which opens the gateway to the full birthing of the fourth density: peace and its many associated qualities.

It is a reciprocal relationship, in that as the collective vibration begins to choose and embody this state of peace so do the doors of fourth density crack open wider allowing that new light and love to emerge and manifest. And as this increase in the frequency of the fourth density arrives and washes over and blesses your world, so, too, then, does the peace within the heart and the mind and among your peoples [grow].

We would take this opportunity to note what each within the circle knows, and that is wherefrom peace springs, where it begins. As was explored in an earlier moment of this gathering in the phrase, “What is an ocean but a multitude of drops?” What is global peace but a multitude of peace holders, a multitude of beings such as those within this circle, such as those living from the open heart around your planet embodying, vibrating, and exemplifying peaceful beingness.

For the collective vibratory rate only changes insofar as individuals move from fear to love; heal fear to allow love; have the courage to love regardless of the fear; have the discernment to recognize the difference between fear and love; have the vision to see the world through the uplifting, God-revealing eyes of unconditional, universal love.

For in fear is bellicosity and retribution and the poisons of suspicion and mistrust of one another. In fear is a misapprehension of the nature of the other-self, the nature of the group-self, and the nature of one’s own self. In such an environment, which runs strong within your world at present, peoples turn from the community, the world community, toward their own; toward seeking the self’s needs or the tribe’s needs with an energy of exclusion and expulsion and villainizing and dehumanizing the other. This manifests in its more extreme ends in the economic inequality, and further, the killing and the war and those other varieties of disharmony.

This fractured or fragmented collective state of being holds back and retards the process of that world which wishes to be born. And as individuals tune their frequency to being beings of peace, and join others holding and seeking and sharing this frequency, peace and love and light have greater anchor into your world, have greater space to manifest.

Our friends, when facing the onslaught of your news cycle and of the next story of tragedy and loss and hoarded power and so forth, we would remind you that you have an immense, indeed, infinite power to invite peace into this world, to invite those energies which will, of their own, heal this planet, heal a troubled peoples.

Each of you wanted to be here at this time that you may grow through the soil of third density and be as a stem or a shoot or a vessel through which the liquid love and light of the One Creator can be poured, that it may move through you and into the soil. That it may—in its own intelligence greater than that of the incarnate self—spread light and love, rippling and cascading across your world, speaking to the pain held within the body of your Earth, speaking to the pain held within the collective mind, speaking to that shadow wherein resides enormous wells of suffering and grief and desperation.

You are such a portal, and you have a choice whether to open the lid, shall we say, on your portal, or to hold an identity which feels small, which feels disempowered, which feels incapable or insufficient in the face of such widespread fear and mistrust and societal fragmentation.

We ask you, our friends, to remember firstly that you are not alone. Not only in that you are constantly with guidance, not only in that there are countless beings and energies and light sources ready to spring into action at your mere request and expression of need, not only in that you are one among a soul family upon this world, but most fundamentally and significantly, you are one with, and have never been separated from, the Creator, which is none other than your eternal, true, and real nature.

As a personality shell, as an incarnation, you need not architect this peace by yourself. You have great responsibility and a role to play in choice-making each and every day, of course. From very subtle to dramatic ways, you are presented with choices to heal the war within yourself that the war within the collective may be healed, to honor this being that you are, which you may have neglected or demeaned or judged. You have the possibility and power of setting your intention. You have the power of choosing where you will place your focus.

What is it this day you will focus upon? Will you surrender your focus to a disharmonious outer world? Would you give it up and let the cacophony of discordant and dissonant narratives set your identity and give to you your story? Or would you reclaim your focus that you may intentionally direct and place it upon love, upon allowing love, upon no longer making excuses or finding justifications or reasons for withholding love from yourself, from others, or from [simply] feeling love?

And using that focus as a tool, spending time contemplating love, removing the distractions and taking your focus and attention into this inquiry of love—What is love? Where is it within me?—taking your attention down further and further and further into love that it may reveal ever new facets and depths to you. That it may fill your being. That it may make contact with those parts of your own self which are fragmented where pain and trauma are held. That it may do its healing work upon you.

And that is what we would bring your attention to now, our friends, is that you have a great range of choice-making to do within your daily cycles, but the ultimate source of peace within yourself and within peoples, [the ultimate source of] love and harmony, is within the Creator. This is why we use terms like “vessel”: to remind you that you, as an incarnate self, do not supply this love and peace per se. Instead, it comes through you. Instead, you create space for it. And in so doing, you can release from yourself an unneeded and misplaced burden of that which you must achieve in the world, of that world you must change.

Do all the work that is available to you. Yes, be disciplined in the use of your attention and focus, and tune to those frequencies of love and light, and purify that tuning as you go forward and allow that love and light to work of its own. Your peoples will be harmonized, not precisely because a body of wise beings has come together to figure out a plan, per se, though harmony does manifest as plans as well. But rather because you have become resonant with love, because you have become a vessel for love.

Love is the composer greater than the sum of the seemingly many parts that will bring your separate seeming notes into rhythm and harmony that a collective song and melody may emerge. In the hands of the Creator, love is that which finds appropriate relationship and position of these various notes so that the planet resounds in a collective chorus of praise and thanksgiving.

And from those old and tired energies of third density, with gratitude for the journey that was but also elation and a sense of arrival, a collective sense [will emerge] of finally: finally the truth which we have sought. Finally, the ability to exist without fear of violence, without feeling threatened by neighbor. Finally the ability to look into the eyes of each other and see the One between you, in you, in the other. [You will] come into community with they who were Muslim or Jew or Christian or Buddhist or Hindu or indigenous or atheist, or this ethnicity or that, or that nationality or that age, and honor and celebrate these differences, allowing love to be that which connects you heart to heart. Allowing love to be the universal language through which you hear and communicate to one another. Allowing love to be the music that each hears and moves in rhythm to.

We do not mean to paint a picture of a utopia, our friends, but we can understand why, from your present position, it may seem that way. Peace is not the end of work in consciousness, but it is the way to the Creator and to the fourth density.

At this time, with gratitude to this circle, we would transfer our contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. My friends, one of the hurdles of your third density and the veiling that it entails is the seeming collapse of your ability to perceive into, what you have called, the five senses. If we could but share with you what we are able to perceive beyond those particular senses within the time/space, as we view you now and as we have viewed you during your time together.

The closest analogy that we have found is that of sound and music. We have much enjoyed witnessing and experiencing the times during your gathering in which you have explored rhythm and tone and vibration, and this is how we see you: as vibration. And as you have come together, you have created a unified vibration. The one known as V referenced earlier our words from a previous meeting, that during your time together, you have formed a particular entity, a thought-form. You may also view this as you joining together as a choir to form a song that resonates throughout the entire creation. A song that includes all of your voices and your hearts.

This song will continue and persist within time/space. Though you may go your separate ways, travel to your corners of your planet, and be separated in space/time, you can remain unified within time/space through this song that you will continue to sing together as you go back to the troubles of your world, to both the joys and the sorrows, the mundane and the divine.

As you find yourself weary and you lose the sound of the song, know that it is not your ears that may perceive it, but your heart. And if you can but tap into your heart and recollect the faces, the eyes, and the beingness of your other-selves, the tune will return to your beingness. And you may then go forth singing it to your world and sharing it with your other-selves so that they too may vibrate in resonance with this song that you will eternally sing together through your time that you have spent during your gathering.

We join you in singing this song. And we are eager for you to join us in the fourth density so that you may perceive what we perceive: that it is more than just a song. It is the vibration of the One Infinite Creator blossoming and blooming within your hearts and within the heart of your planet as it continues, though troubled, to transition and blossom into the fourth density of love and understanding.

We express, again, our gratitude and honor that we feel being invited to join you. This is not just an opportunity for us to share our own perspective, but in this invitation, you allow us to be of service and to be served by your own beingness. It is how we are able to gather our own catalyst and progress along our own journeys in union with you.

At this time, we take leave of this circle, and we leave you as we found you, in the love and in the light and in the peace of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

Paraphrased from #8.1:

Consider, if you will, the path your life-experience complex has taken. Consider the coincidences and odd circumstances by which one thing flowed to the next. Consider this well. Each entity will receive the opportunity that each needs.

The question was asked by our dear friend, Romi, who attended virtually every channeling from ~1992 to when he returned to the Czech Republic in 2014. At many sessions in the 90s, he was the only person joining Carla and Jim for the necessary minimum of three people to receive a universal contact, i.e., channeling outer planes sources like the Confederation. ↩

