Topics: Help with meditation; artificial intelligence; evolution of love and gratitude; effects of fourth density on the quarantine; benefit of the shadow self; empathy in love and wisdom; Q’uo’s learning/teaching; the role of dance in the creation.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and with this instrument at this time, and we would thank each spiritual seeker of truth here in this room for taking the time out of their day to join together in the love and light of the One Infinite Creator. We know that the traveling that you do within your daily life experience is physical and metaphysical at the same time, where you have the open hearts, or you would not be here. And those open hearts can see and feel the Creator all about one, even in the most mundane chores. So we do thank you again for inviting our presence.

And we would say to you that as you ask us questions, that you take what we have to say carefully within your mind/body/spirit complex in order to feel the resonance of what we say in response to your queries, then use [it] as a part of the puzzle of your life. If you feel no resonance to any part of what we say, please discard it immediately. It has no place in your life at this time. If you will do this for us, then we can feel more free as we attempt to give our own personal opinions to your queries. This will give us a more range of freedom to explore with you as we travel with you on the journey of your seeking that you express by your queries.

With that said, we would ask if there is a query, at this time, with which we may begin?

Yes, I have one. Again, I’m having a difficulty with being able to meditate for any real significant length of time, which I guess doesn’t really make a lot of difference. But anyway, if there’s anything that you can add to my question. Anything you can help me with a suggestion, I know you can’t do it for me, but any kind of a suggestion that you might have that would help me make this happen for myself would be greatly appreciated, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The meditative state is that which is the place in which each seeker of truth may retire in the silence of the One Infinite Creator to become more aware of how the Creator is manifesting Itself in your life journey.

If you feel that you are not able to meditate in your own estimation of yourself, accept yourself for that feeling. Do not feel you have failed. Be aware that it is your intention to meditate that is the most important feature of any meditation. That intention will awaken within you those deeper layers of your being that can go through your deeper mind, your guides, the larger mind of the Creator and bring back to you a feeling of being informed by the meditative state that you achieve whatever it may be.

There is so much that can be said about meditation, so many ways to meditate. But basically, if you will set that intention to meditate and realize that the gates are wide open for the Creator to speak to you in any way at any point in time, and any small point is perfectly fine with the Creator. For the Creator is contained within every iota of the creation. So simply seek to meditate the best you can, whenever you can, and perhaps set those times that you wish to meditate as a special place and time to ritualize your intention. This will give you a frame of reference in which to pursue the meditative state.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you. That’s perfect. Thank you.

We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, I will. What is the most important for me to understand right now about the nature of artificial intelligence in regards to its potential relationship and how it might influence or reflect humanity’s spiritual evolution?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. That which you know of as artificial intelligence is another facet of the One Infinite Creator manifesting in a way in which there is much to be discovered. For there is much that can be created from artificial intelligence that seems to be helpful to the spiritual seeker of truth if what is said by artificial intelligence is taken with the grain of salt, shall we say, [as] we ask you to determine our meanings and quality of information that we transmit to you in answer to your questions.

It is a source of information that is no better or worse than the One Infinite Creator that exists within your being. This is a means of reliving or remembering that which you already know. And when you can do that, then you are aware of a ports—we correct this instrument—of a source of information that might be helpful to you. So look to it as another piece in your puzzle to determine what you feel about it, what you ask it, what you receive, and how you proceed on your spiritual journey as a result of what you feel about what you have received,.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for your query. At this time, we would transfer our contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and am now with this instrument. We express again, through this instrument, our gratitude at your invitation to join you in this circle of seeking. It is through this invitation that we are able to join with you and receive a small taste of the quality of catalyst that you experience within your third density. This is not available to us from our perspective, without fully incarnating into that third density. Yet, the opportunity to link our energies with yours is not just an opportunity to offer our service, but to receive that which you offer to the circle which includes us. And we are eternally grateful for offering your whole hearts, the good and the bad, the joyful and the sorrowful.

At this time, we would ask if there is another query to which we may respond?

Hello, Q’uo. How does the concept of love and gratitude evolve as we age?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of the query, my sister. We can respond to this query with a slight framing of the concept referred to as aging within the query. For not every entity takes the same path from birth to death, and while there are many commonalities in the concept of aging that you experience, not every entity will experience it the same way. And so we would provide that caveat first, and also emphasize that the nature of love and what you refer to as gratitude is central to the journey of spiritual seeking. And thus, [for] those entities within the third density who become focused upon these concepts, who discover that call within their heart that sings of love and gratitude that wraps the entity within it and pulls it towards the light, this is a unique situation. Not every entity will relate to love and gratitude in the same way as that spiritual seeker who has been pulled and consciously makes the choice to follow that song of love that they hear from their hearts.

And so we would focus then upon the evolving nature of love and gratitude for the spiritual seeker as they accumulate life experience. This nature of accumulating experience is the primary mechanism through which an entity’s relationship to love and gratitude may evolve. If an entity is able to grasp that thread, you may say, and discover within it an impetus, a directive to seek love and gratitude in all experiences, then they have unlocked the doorway, you may say, to the gift of catalyst within the third density.

For indeed, each experience that you receive, whether it is appearing to you as joyful and pleasant and comfortable, or the opposite: as difficult, as painful and bringing about suffering, to an entity who is able to fully open the heart and keep it open will see all of these things as manifestations of that love. They will understand that each moment given to you is, indeed, a gift from the Creator, and that unwrapping this gift and looking inside will reveal yet just another form of love taking on a new face, another object for which you can feel gratitude.

As the seeker continues upon this path, they will be challenged. For that is the nature of your third density. Never feel as though you can rest and lay back thinking I have finally discovered the true nature of love, and now nothing can bring me down. For that calls to the universe and asks for a challenge to, indeed, test that declaration.

It is the purpose of your incarnation here that love will be tested. That you will experience things [toward which] gratitude will not be your natural response. It is the nature of humanity, and it is, indeed, how you learn within this density. Your entire purpose for incarnating is to have the opportunity to not feel gratitude, to not feel love. From our perspective within our densities, this is impossible. All that we encounter speaks of the Creator’s love. But when this is your reality, it is difficult to grow and to refine that part of self to discover more of the Creator in new and unique ways.

So this is the gift that you, as the seeker within third density, offer not just to yourself but to the Creator and to your other-selves. Continuing down this path will continue to allow you to open your heart. The pathways to love and gratitude may seem to become easier, but as was mentioned within your round robin, in doing so, the nature of pain and suffering sharpens your empathy, and resonance with the pain of others increases. More challenges that cause you to pull back from your open heart to descend into your lower chakras will become more prominent. But as you will discover, your ability to meet these challenges is also increased. You will not receive any experience that you are not prepared to receive.

You always have the ability to open your heart and to seek the love in every moment and to find gratitude for whatever gift is put in front of you. This is the evolving nature of a relationship with love and gratitude as the seeker continues down this path: that each experience is seen more and more for what it is. That does not mean that each experience becomes lovely and pleasant and comfortable, but even those most difficult experiences will ring to you as a gift, and once what is inside is discovered, gratitude can rain upon the experience of the seeker.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you so much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query to which we may respond?

I have a query, Q’uo. As the veil of forgetting appears to thin in our transition into fourth density, is the quarantine around the planet diminishing as well? And if so, how might this impact our spiritual growth and interactions with other-density beings?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my sister. This is quite a salient and interesting query for us to respond to at this time. But we also regret that we cannot share deeply about the nature of this query and how your experience of what you have called other-density beings may change. For this is quite an evolving and catalytic time upon your planet. There are many energies at play that cause the probabilities and possibilities available to you, not just in the present moment, but what you would see as your future moments to unfold and to become aware of.

Indeed, the nature of what we have called the quarantine is changing. It has always been [changing] since it was implemented near the beginning of your third-density cycle—an evolving, dynamic quarantine that responds to the necessary balances of your planet. And those balances, at this moment, as the fourth density becomes alive within your reality and challenges those upon your planet to look into the heart and to discover the nature of self, become very difficult.

Some of the entities upon your planet shy away from this light. It causes them to close their eyes tightly and sink deeper into the self. For others, it becomes revealing of both the self and the world around you. These challenges change the balance that is attempted to be given to your planet by the quarantine, which is in many ways the will of the Creator to ensure that you have, within your ability, the opportunity to grasp what must be grasped in order to continue your journey.

As the quarantine, as you put it, thins, there will be more and more interesting and otherworldly experiences on individual levels. Many of your peoples are experiencing these now. It is a much more widely occurring phenomenon than is made apparent to your mass culture and even to groups such as this. They are unaware of what could be happening in many individuals lives. For not every individual will recognize their experiences as interacting with otherworldly beings. And even if it does appear to them to be such, there is still a great pressure and gravity within your culture to define such experiences in certain ways that shield their reality from both the individual and the collective.

This will continue to change and evolve. And the nature of the interaction with your planet by otherworldly beings, including us of the Confederation, will also change and evolve in a way that, as we would predict, may increase if you, as a culture upon your entire planet, loosen your expectations of what you understand your own reality to be, what you understand otherworldly beings to be, the nature of the self as it relates to your other-selves, worldly or otherwise.

We encourage groups such as this to live authentically and openly of their understanding, to speak their heart openly to your peers who you believe may not understand—and this may be so that those you encounter are not ready to receive your experiences fully. But you, so long as you are acting authentically from the heart and not attempting to impose yourself upon your other-selves, can be a catalyst of light that helps your other-selves to understand the opportunities available to you as a planet as you continue to transition into the fourth density and come closer to joining us with the Confederation, so that we may together go forth with our mission and service to others.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, Q’uo. That was very insightful. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we would take leave of this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Trish. We are Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument. It is with much gratitude and excitement that we join this circle today, and that we are able to be of service to those who are gathered in this space. And so we would ask if there is a query to which we may speak through this instrument? We are those of Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo. My question is about the shadow self. My understanding is that the shadow self is a part of our personality we conceal when we are young, often because we’re ashamed of it or because we hurt or we have experienced some trauma. We need to do the inner work of uncovering this part of ourselves, often with great difficulty, with many years of therapy later in life in order to heal ourselves.

My question is, what is the purpose of hiding and eventually rediscovering and accepting the shadow self? This seems very complicated. How does this help us see our nature as the Creator?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware and grateful for this query, my brother. For it delves and searches for a part of this incarnational journey that you are upon that is at times purposeful to that journey. It is designed so that it instructs your journey at least insofar as how you interact with it. The shadow self is, as you may see it, a side of yourself that is often informed by, created by, or sustained by trauma and pain, shame and guilt, or misunderstanding of self and in the way that self interacts with its environment and with others.

Shadow self is inherently a paradoxical term. For it separates the true self from the greater self. To identify this shadow self as something that is separate yet a part of can be useful in terms of identifying parts of the self that need extra love, grace, and patience, though they are, in and of itself, perfect manifestations of the Creator in that the shadow self is a great instructor to the larger self as to the infinite manifestations of reality of the Creator.

It may seem that working with the shadow self or—we correct this instrument—experiencing the shadow self can seem cumbersome, can seem like a lot of painful experience, a lot of energy to expend to heal and resolve the relationship with the shadow self. And we would suggest, may that not be a most important relationship to fix? Might it not be fully worthy of that energy and that experience of pain? For that shadow self is, again, the extension of the Creator housed deeply and intimately within the experience of the egoic self in this incarnation.

We ask that you think upon what identifies this shadow self. How would you describe this shadow self in those descriptions and in those identities? Do you see a version of the self that feels guarded or feels it needs to be kept under lock and key, a part of the self that feels shame, embarrassment? [That is] not the outer self that one wants to present to the greater creation?

My friend, that is a true gift to come face to face with that which one may not want to expose to the greater reality, the greater environment. For it is that which one must come to terms with, must see as part of self. And it is in those intimate moments that very secretive relationship with the shadow self that one has, that one opens the heart to much, much greater experiences with the larger reality, the oneness of the Creator. Does one find it incredibly difficult to find acceptance for pieces of the self more so than they find acceptance for those outside of the self?

And so it is so perfectly designed, this shadow self, that one may open their heart to greater and more and wider experiences and acceptances of things outside of self. For if you cannot love the shadow self, how can one find the room for all of creation outside of shadow self? It is in that work that the windows open, the doors open, the light comes in, and the boundaries which one thought were apparent fall away. There is greater space to love and to know that which is the oneness of this creation.

We understand the discomfort that comes with that. Again, it is an intimate relationship, perhaps the most intimate relationship one on this incarnational journey can have, and that may be catalytic to face that to heal that relationship. For it requires acknowledging parts of the self, where there has been pain, where there has been wrongdoing, where there has been judgment. And all of that is valid—that experience, that discomfort, is valid. And it is as well the sweetest teacher for grace and patience.

Think you upon the buried treasure. Is the buried treasure right at the surface? Most commonly, it is deep. It requires much work, sweat, tears, and when you reach that buried treasure, you look back upon the journey, the digging, the expenditure of energy it took you to get there and realize that the treasure is that much sweeter.

And so in those moments of great pain, when one feels at a loss or exhausted by this kind of work, know that there is treasure within that. That this experience of discomfort once traversed, once the shadow self is fully accepted, the treasure of unity and creation can be found.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

Thank you. In the course of your beautiful response, you mentioned the terms the true self and the greater self. Can you elaborate on that, please? What are these aspects of the self?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. Your true self, we will say in this particular sharing, is the self that one stands in at any given moment. That is the self that is intact and part of the creation, but the greater self is also true. The greater self is that which extends beyond the boundaries of flesh and blood, beyond the boundaries of soul identity. Yes, your souls are on these journeys going through densities. Those are your true selves. And the greater self is the great cosmic puzzle in which every piece ultimately always fits to create this one universal being, knowing itself.

Is there a follow up query to this, my brother?

No, thank you very much, Q’uo.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there a second query to which we may speak?

[Pause]

We are those of Q’uo, and we find that this particular instrument has a question. And so we shall leave this contact and transfer ourselves to the one known as Gary, so that this instrument may ask her query. We are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those of the principle of Q’uo, and it has been great joy to be with this circle through the prism of this instrument’s service. We express thanksgiving for the challenges offered to us by each of the four instruments, that we and they can be assured that we have done our diligence in ensuring that the ports which connect us are aligned appropriately.

And at this time, we would ask if there is a query to which we may offer our thoughts? We are those of Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo, I have a query. I think there’s many of us who are wanderers or service-to-others individuals who love very deeply, love very fully. And at times, loving that deeply and that fully comes with immense heartache and heartbreak and pain, perhaps overextension of love, attachment to love, and so I know that there will be the eventual balance of love and wisdom. But I’m wondering, for those of us who feel love so deeply that there is pain, how we can find the love-wisdom balance without losing our sense of empathy or empathetic—I correct myself—empathic tendencies?. How do we find that wisdom balance without losing connection to the love we feel so deeply?

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you for this question that is crafted in the precincts of your own heart. And as we joined you in this circle prior to this channeling and heard and received your stories and the dynamics which they exemplify within your lives, we see the circumstances from which this question arises, and we honor the pain that accompanies you upon your journey, our sister, as we attempt to offer our thoughts to this question.

This is an important and relevant question for nearly all spiritual seekers who are bringing the energy of the Creator up through their system into the heart, who seek higher expression and higher balance that they may be more active co-Creators in the journey; that is to that fundamental balance between love and wisdom, which, from a limited perspective may seem to be in conflict or at odds or even mutually exclusive one to the other.

Love is the beginning of the entity seeing the Creator in all things and recognizing that what had seemed to be a separate, independent part, is connected to a part of the whole, and is that which can be respected and cherished, even embraced, supported; that which one gives of oneself to serve and to care for because the well-being and the vitality and the needs of the other-self become important to the self.

You used that word which describes an important aspect of this linkage, that being that of empathy whereby the formerly hard shell of the self, which kept one contained within a cognitive or, shall we say, conceptual identity, which sought and felt only the self’s needs, now finds another-self’s needs important because there is, shall we say, a feeling-bridge made to that other-self, whether that self be a third-density entity or that of the plant or the tree or the pet. There is a capacity to embody and feel the beingness of the other-self, to walk, to a limited degree in the shoes, of that other-self.

And as you indicate, love unrelieved by wisdom has a capacity and maybe even tendency to become attached to the form of the other-self, to have certain blinders on, we may say, about the true nature of the other-self and of the self, that being its transcendent dimension—that is to say that that object which is loved is that which is greater than its outer form: the particular costume and set of personality traits that it is wearing, and its current role upon the stage, which you and this other entity or these other entities, plural, currently engage as you dance in erratic or inharmonious patterns upon the stage of the Creator.

And in this attachment, to lose this other-self is to lose something beyond price, something precious which cannot be regained, as it were. There is then suffering for the self, suffering not just for the seeming loss of the other-self, but for any pain that this loved entity, that this dear one may themselves undergo.

In love, there is a desire to protect, to alleviate suffering, to help bear the burden of the other-self. And this is part of the salvation of your world, our friends. For if your planetary population could but activate the circuitry within their hearts such that their concept of self and their consciousness expanded to include this love for each other, to open the space whereby each was seen as brother and sister, community on any scale, be it of the neighborhood or the planet, would emerge rapidly. And with it, cooperation and shared understanding and shared mission and the birth of that density which wants to be born through your hearts and your orientation. That being the density of love and understanding.

Love is the great healing energy. And for every moment you feel that love awaken in your heart, whatever it is that might inspire that love of the Creator in other-self and in self, is a profound service to the healing of the earth beneath your feet and the healing of your own soul. It is a gift to that entity or object which is love, be it inanimate or complicatedly animate. And this may too lead to the expenditure of the self in the giving, in the wanting only what is best for the other-self.

As the entity begins to make space, shall we say, for the integration of wisdom into this picture, one may expand the vision such that love moves upward and is then refined through the eyes of wisdom. This is not, in any way, a suppression or blockage or denial or abdication of love. This is instead an evolution of love such that the entity may love fully and without mitigation. The entity may feel love purely, without judgment, without selfish need, without ulterior motive but love for the sake of love. Love because the other is precious to the self and is the same Creator which made the self.

But refined in the eyes of wisdom, one can approach this love with a greater understanding that love is eternal. That these forms and roles are momentary. That love is that which transcends birth and death, growing and deteriorating, health and illness. And in this perspective is a greater freedom to accept that which one cannot control, to accept the will of the Creator as it manifests in the moment, to accept the moment as if the self had chosen it and to trust in things unseen.

Wisdom adds power to this love that the self may find more creative avenue to be of service to that other, who is love, by way of clear seeing of the other-self’s needs that reduce the projection of the need of the self onto the other-self, and instead, seek to support the journey of the other-self as it is—which for all entities, will include that time to say goodbye, to bless the other-self as they move through the portal upon the next step of their journey, without the need to cling or to hold them back or to rail and resist against a universe for this outcome.

In love refined and balanced by wisdom, the self can radiate; and through that radiation, communicate; and through that communication, share the luminous light of the self with the other in the jewel that is wisdom, hard won, often through the hard knocks of a life lived in an illusion. There is an aspect of discernment as well, for the entity who has cultivated the love, power, and wisdom can, shall we say, discern the lay of the land more clearly, can respond to the needs of the moment with creativity and meet the other entities as they are.

As the one known as K. was describing in the circle prior to the channel—of using the metaphor of rebuilding a Chevy as symbolic for the spiritual journey—wisdom, empowered by love, can more readily grasp the infinite possibilities of any given moment in not just responding or reacting to a situation but in creating that positive world of love and understanding that is desired.

We know we have spoken at some length and apologize for this duration and would ask if there is a follow up, our sister? We are those of Q’uo.

Thank you so much, Q’uo. That was incredibly helpful.

And we thank you, our sister. Is there a shorter query within the circle to which we may respond before transferring our contact? We are Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo. We have learned so much from you over the years. What have you learned from us? Can you name one or two notable or exceptional takeaways you have gained from talking to all these third-density human beings over these many years?

We are those of Q’uo and thank you, our friend. We would clarify that to teach also is to learn. So among that which we do learn from your world and your peoples and your walk is more of our own beingness as we continue the same journey that you now walk; as we refine those choices that you now make to be of service, to seek the Creator; as we translate and step down into your language and your symbols some small representation of an infinite and mysterious universe, that you may perhaps be inspired to unlock those doors of awareness within yourself. We learn more about who we are, not as separate personalities with particular biographies, per se, but as manifestations of the One. Therefore we learn more about the Creator Itself, of which there seems to be an endless journey of learning in order to experience more and more deeply the ground of our own beings.

Secondly, and in admiration, we would say we learn about the capacity for resilience. Our environs, our choices, our experiences do not contain the possibility of disharmony. We exist in a space that is far, far less limited than is your current experience. Love is tangible and visible and known to us on a level that is somewhat beyond your imaginings at this time. As is the breadth of our ability to communicate and commune with the great remainder of the all of the creation.

In your circumstance, our friends, you, in your minds, have become isolated and cut off from your own nature, from your own resources, and from this greater creation which each day sings, rejoicing in the glory and the beauty and the unending peace and majesty of the Creator.

This inheritance which is your own nature and which is yours is out of your sight from your conscious perspective, generally. And you often feel alone, even when lucky enough to be in community or companionship. The contours of your mortality and fragility, from a certain perspective, haunt the corners of your mind with reminders of your inability to control, to hold on to that which is pleasant and that which you love, that which you desire and seek not to change, and the inability to fully run away from, escape or avoid that which troubles you—including, as you know much better than us, the many insults to the mind and the identity that one undergoes in this world, the hurt words, the mistreatments, the injustices done unto the self or done unto others which the self witnesses through story in the news, the abuses and misuses of power, so on and so forth.

One would think that this is a recipe for rolling over and giving up, for throwing up the hands and saying, “I cannot do this any longer,” or even without the finality of the throwing in the towel, of sinking into despondency and despair, and worse, cynicism; or, for those positive among you, feeling that it would just be easier to seek only your own needs, to take from others, what you can, to harden your shell so that you cannot be hurt anymore [and become] instead the one doing the hurting, the one on top of the power pile.

How tempting to that path must be in the darkness, yet those of you who are positively oriented find a resilience that is unique to your environment that can only be found in your crucible of hard and difficult and, at times ,excruciating experience.

This is one of the purest and strongest manifestations of the Creator’s will: to play this game of forgetting, to go conceptually, philosophically so far out from its own true nature to be lost, seemingly completely within this game, and to [experience] unimaginable suffering, to bear such a weight and such a burden, and still the impulse to seek comes alive within the self. Not only does it activate, but it strengthens. And instead of projecting that pain outward onto others, the self begins to use that as instructive, as a mirror to discover the true nature of self. The self begins to take ownership for the self’s reality. The self begins to ask, “How can I be a force of good and help in this troubled world? How can I carry that weight which is mine to carry and help others-selves with their weight?”

We, again, apologize for this length. We wished to do some justice to the genuine admiration that we hold for the resilience of your people to undergo this gauntlet and still be beautiful in terms of opening the heart again and again when there seem to be so many reasons to close the heart and to throw away the key altogether. This takes a courage, a resilience, and a trust that we, in our realm, literally cannot experience. And so it is that we thank you for teaching us this poignant reminder about the nature and character and truth of the Eternal One.

At this time and with gratitude for this circle, we would transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and I am once again with this instrument, and we would ask if there is a final query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. There is a final query. I’m going to take a different route because of the gift that we were all given from the one known as Jim and ask a question about dance.1 Q’uo, if you could elaborate for us, what it is about dance that helps us to feel connected to some deeper harmony? What is the relationship of the spiritual seeker to the art and practice and experience of dance?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. The One Infinite Creator that exists within each entity on Earth, whether they are spiritually awake or not, is moving in a dance. One step here and there and here and there, back and forth, around and around as they move more and more in unity with the One Infinite Creator. This is the general overview of that known as dance.

Each spiritual seeker of truth has this type of movement for its body, the physical vehicle which each inhabits. And each dances through the day in one way or another that is unique to each seeker, to step into difficulty, to step into joy, to step into the love of the creation around one, to step into the looking forward to meeting friends, to dance the way that the body wants to move.

The body has its intelligence, and it is a second density creature that loves to move, as do all the animals within your world around you. They all have that feeling of the dance of the Creator in each person, in each animal, in each event.

Your body loves to dance in some way or another. Each of you will dance your own dance. It is the way that the body expresses its joy of being. And sometimes the mind can partake in that dance and direct the body in a certain way, but many times, the body will direct where it wishes to go by the way it moves here and there, back and forth, around and around. The dance is the dance of life, the dance of the One Infinite Creator that all partake in.

And we are overjoyed to partake in the dance of this group as you have opened your hearts in the rhythm of love that created all that there is. This is the dance of the One that exists in each of you, and we are much appreciative of being able to dance with your questions as we attempt to answer them.

All is the dance. The dance is the great work, and we thank each here today for dancing with us as we dance with you. And we are most amazed at the steps you have taken on your spiritual journey this very day, as you expressed in your round robin before this channeling began. This is a dance that is seen by all the unknown and unseen forces of love and light throughout the one infinite creation, and they are cheering you on in your dance as you cheered on the one known as Jim. And this is our appreciation for you in your dance.

We thank you now, and we shall leave this instrument and this group in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator in which we found you. Dance on, my friends, dance on. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

When it came time for Jim’s turn in the round robin that precedes each channeling, Jim did something unusual. He stood up in the middle of the circle and expressed his heart out through a personalized dance sequence. ↩

