Topics: The distinction between the vibrations of oneness and love; the Big Bang and the Great Attatractor; “light goes where it is needed”; self-worth and the perceptions of others; letting go of attachments; the energy centers; the value of practicing telepathy; 3I/ATLAS.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time, and we are looking about this circle feeling the presence of love of the One Creator in every heart. Thank you for being here and making the time to seek more of your spiritual journey that can be experienced when you gather together with those who have like minds as yours.

We would also suggest that as we attempt to answer your queries with our opinions, that you realize that they are our opinions, and that you take them with the proverbial grain of salt. We are not telling you what you must do, but what you might do, what might be helpful on your spiritual journey.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query to which we may respond?

Yes, I have a question. So if everything is vibration, I’m wondering about the vibrations of oneness and the vibration of love, and are they the same or different? And do you have to have one before the other? So I’m just looking for some clarity there.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The vibrations of unity and love and light are much the same. However, they must come in a certain order, in order for the unity to exist. The unity is when the Creator began to know itself and decided to create the one infinite creation with beings such as are gathered here as means of knowing Itself through your experiences. So that vibration of unity, then, was akin to that which you know of the vibration of love, the Creator’s love. It had the power to create the entire universe out of Itself, as that love was manifested in the light that is the entire creation.

Photons that move in different speeds and angles of rotation, create everything that exists. Everything that looks that it is not of light is an illusion. For you live within the third-density illusion that is created by the veil of forgetting that you go through as you incarnate into this third-density illusion, in order to know more about yourself; to manifest your preincarnative choices, that were means that you created with your higher self and your guides to discover those principles that are the foundation of your spiritual journey. This is the way that the vibrations of unity, love, and light are manifested in you and in every person, every thing, every being, every star, every galaxy, every mosquito, every blade of grass has the vibration of the One Infinite Creator. For it is all made of the One Infinite Creator’s love and light.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, not at this time. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Yes. If the Big Bang was considered to be the beginning, and Derry Lewis’s Great Attractor considered to be the end, what is the assumption that the universe is moving towards the Great Attractor as infinity returning to source of the Infinite Creator?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We feel that there is a type of translation of terms that we will need to utilize in order to verify the basic nature and correctness of the so called Big Bang Theory. The “bang” part of the theory is that which is the beginning of the one infinite creation. The Creator became aware of Itself and created the universe around it to know Itself better, beginning with what you might call a state of chaos, so that those principles of earth, wind, fire, and water came into being and formed what you might call the first density of beingness, which was the first expression of the Creator in a manner that the chaos was organized, so that the Creator could know more about Itself.

The Big Bang then became more organized within the second density of the simple awareness of the creatures and the plants that you may see as second-density beings. These have the basic feature of the Creator of the feeling of unity with all about them being able, in many cases, to communicate in what you would call a telepathic oneness. At some point, some of these beings are also able to naturally awaken their spirit complex so that there is the mind/body/spirit complex that is what you see around you here in the circle today, within the illusion of third density.

For each of you is more than a third-density being. You are more than you feel you are. You are moving into the fourth density of love and understanding. So this process of the Big Bang continues to reverberate into the fourth density of love and understanding, and then into the fifth density of wisdom or light. This continues into the seventh density of foreverness. And again, all entities and beings and matter itself begins to condense into the One Infinite Creator in the eighth density of foreverness, or the black hole that is the final bang within this octave of densities. And then the entire process begins again and goes on forever and ever, as it has been doing forever and ever. The bang begins, the bang proceeds, the bang completes, and it is all done in the mystery of the unity of the One Infinite Creator that exists within each being, within the circle of seeking.

Is there a further query?

No. Thanks, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you. At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo. We greet this circle again through this instrument and express our gratitude for being invited to join you in your circle of seeking. This joining together means more to us than we can properly convey through words through these instruments. The invitation to join you and to offer our thoughts to your queries is not just, from our perspective, a one way offering, but rather it is an exchange. For it is our joining together—and your questioning and inquisitiveness and offering your third-density perspective to the circle, allowing us to then respond and join this dance of curiosity and seeking—[that] allows us ourselves to have unique experiences and catalyst that allows us to further progress on our own paths. And we are ever grateful to have this opportunity with you. We may say even that this dance of seeking that we do with you in this circle is fun and a joyful experience for us, and we hope that through this dance, we all together can come closer to the joy of the One Infinite Creator in its peace and glory.

Is there another query, at this time, to which we may respond? We are Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo. In speaking with the instrument earlier today, he said something to me: “the light goes where it is needed.” And I think I needed to hear that said so beautifully and succinctly. I wondered if you could expand on that idea of the light goes where it is needed?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my brother. And we are again grateful for the opportunity to speak to this concept. For it is an important and deep concept that we would encourage all seekers to contemplate in their meditation. It is incredibly relevant to you upon your journeys at this time. For you have taken upon yourself, in your incarnation, the veil of third density that shields your perception from the truth of all of creation. It blocks your ability to perceive clearly the unity and the perfection that binds all things, that demonstrates that all things are proper in their place, and the One Infinite Creator is manifest in all situations and is the director and conductor of all movements, all rhythms, and all light goes exactly where it is needed and intended at that moment.

Yet, from your perspective, it does not always seem this way. Indeed, the veil of third density allows you, with great effect, to perceive yourself as being separate from the creation about you and from your other-selves. It allows you to have the illusion that you can have direct influence and must, yourself, provide healing and perfection within the creation. That you are in charge of fixing or healing or directing light where it must go because you perceive something through your own distortions.

This illusion then allows you to make mistakes, you may say, to experience difficulties and catalysts where you may have thought at a certain point that you needed to act in a certain way, or you took upon yourself certain responsibilities that were not properly yours to accept. And in attempting to bring your own idea of offering light, of offering love, and to attempt to fix or rectify or rearrange the creation in a way that you thought was more fit and more perfect, in doing so, you then created further distortion, perhaps, that rebounded back to you and offered itself to you as catalyst.

These situations may seem to you, from your veiled perspective, as a mistake. However, we reiterate the theme present within the statement, expressed within the query, that light goes where it is needed. This is a statement of perfection. That there is no way for light to travel, aside from where it is needed. For you to have had an idea that went astray and took action that may have caused more harm than you intended, or did not have the effect that you had desired, is the light itself attempting to show you where it is needed, attempting to give itself to you as you need it as a lesson, as a catalyst, as a gift from the Creator.

Once you are able to release your own expectations, your own distortions ,and your own attachments to how this light must manifest and how the creation about you must be arranged in a way that you think would be the most perfect, [it allows you to] open this gift of the catalyst that it brought you. You realize that, indeed all along, the love was present exactly where it was needed. That your actions contained the love that was needed to bring the catalyst to you, and that catalyst itself contained the love necessary for you to release these distortions and allow yourself to relax into the faith that the One Infinite Creator is manifest in every iota of the creation. That there is no situation in which the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator is not present and is not doing its work as is necessary for the creation to unfold in its perfection.

This statement that light travels where it is needed has many layers, and as we encourage you to contemplate it. We encourage you to reflect upon those times where you were, with maybe some effort, able to release your attachments and your distortions that thought that you, as the individual personality complex incarnate within the third density, were directing the light where it must go. But as you release these distortions, you realize something unexpected manifest to allow yourself to not be attached to the outcome of where that light goes. It allows that light to then actually go where it is called for, and allows it to be present in other situations.

As you have experienced these moments where you may have been able to let go, you will be reinforced and allow yourself to more and more surrender to the guidance of the Creator and listen more and more to that voice that you find within your own heart. That voice that seems to maybe come from deep within, or from far away, and to let go of those voices that you hear within yourself that are built upon the illusion of your personality and the patterns of your mind complex developed through your experiences, whether in this lifetime or previous lifetimes. Allow yourself to surrender to faith and allow the love and the light of the Creator to flow through you. You will be moved as you are needed to listen to this call, to move in one way or the other, to offer your love and light in one way or another. [This] is, indeed, the great lesson of third density. To let go of the distortions and heal those wounds that paint your perception and distort your ability to see clearly the perfection of the creation. To see clearly the love in every moment is, indeed, the purpose of the illusion.

And so we would again reiterate that as you attempt to share the love and light of the Creator, and as you experience catalyst from that sharing, this is the light going where it is needed. And thus, as you continue to progress and allow yourself to surrender more and more, that light then begins to go where you are guided to share it. This is, indeed, what we wish most to impart to you: the ability that you have within yourself, the infinite capacity to open your heart and to allow the love and light of the Creator to flow without condition, without an attempt to say that it must be manifest in any certain way, that it must go to any certain place. It is already flowing where it is needed, and your task then is to simply allow it to flow through you more and more as a crystallized being, and that light that flows becomes more clarified and more able to be seen as flowing where it is needed.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, and I am grateful for your words. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo. My question is about self-worth. Some people, especially when they’re children, dream about being famous or doing something exceptional in their lives. If that doesn’t happen, they feel like a failure. They wonder: what are they going to do with the rest of their lives? My question is does one’s self-worth depend on what you accomplish in your life, on your presence, or [on] what you radiate, or [on] something else? Can you comment on this please?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my brother. And again appreciate deeply the opportunity to speak to this query. For we find that self-worth is, indeed, one of the most difficult and baffling concepts for seekers in circles such as this. And, indeed, we find much truth within this query, that your society has a unique ability to impress upon those within it, particularly those of a young age, to place value in themselves based upon the perception of others.

We find a connection between the desire, as you have framed it, to be famous or to do great things and to be seen as being a great figure in society, being equated with having high self-worth. The idea being that if others can see me as being effective and valuable and worthy, then it may be true.

This dynamic places the burden of self-worth upon the other self. And in this placing this burden upon the other self, there is also a burden placed upon the self requiring the lack of acknowledgement of one’s own self-worth that one can give to oneself. It requires one to release their own value to others, and this creates quite a distorted situation. We find that your society is uniquely oriented this way. And the desires that you identify within your query are rich for contemplation and catalyst: to allow people to understand how they might identify with these words of using the reflection of other selves to assess one’s own self worth.

We would express some agreement with the latter part of your query where this self-worth is rather identified and developed through one’s ability to be more themselves, to radiate more of themselves. However, we would point out that this is still, in some ways, somewhat of a distortion of your third-density understanding. For the veil of forgetting, as we spoke earlier, places upon you the lack of your ability to understand the perfection of every moment.

In truth, there is no need for you to be or to do any particular thing. There is no need for you to be seen by your other-selves in any particular way. There is nothing you can do to increase your self-worth or to decrease your self-worth. You are, without condition, infinitely worthy—no matter your circumstance, no matter your beingness, no matter your perceptions or your distortions. However you manifest yourself within the third density, in the eyes of the One Infinite Creator, you are perfect, and you are whole—no matter your perceptions otherwise.

But we would encourage the line of thinking, as you have presented it within the query, that the path to understanding and accepting this and embodying this truth will travel from retrieving that self-worth that you rely upon others to reflect to you, and to find it within yourself based upon your own journey and your own beingness, and assessing how you are able to be more and more yourself, more and more in alignment with your heart and with your soul.

But this path continues, and it is one that we of Q’uo and those of the Confederation in Service to the One Infinite Creator still walk: to understand the utter perfection of the unity of the creation in every moment, and that the question of self-worth is irrelevant. For there can be no different worth when all is infinite. There can be no assessment of more or less worthiness in an infinite creation. For all is infinitely worthy—including you, as you are the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

Is there not a paradox in your statement that I am, because of the veil of forgetting, unable to perceive my true worth and my desire to know? Is there a paradox between my inability to see clearly my worth, and to know what my heart is, to know who I really am, to live in alignment with my heart? How can I know how to do that if I can’t see clearly because of the veil?

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother. And indeed, we find that, particularly within the third-density perspective, there is a paradox in these words that we share. This is one of the strengths of the third density, allowing you to come up against such paradoxes. For in attempting to understand our words in a logical or linear sense, they will, in some ways, seem nonsensical. That it is almost as if we are encouraging you to, as this instrument is familiar with the phrase, “pull yourself up by your bootstraps.”

However, through this paradox and through contemplating this paradox, you can come closer to understanding that there is a purpose behind your experiences as a veiled third-density entity. That even though each step of the journey is rich with the infinite perfection of the One Infinite Creator, that the journey itself is also rich with that Infinite Creator. That each step can simultaneously affirm the utter perfection of each moment and each step before it, and also bring you closer to that One Infinite Creator.

For from our perspective, that perfection does already exist, and this is the experience that the Creator desired in manifesting Its creation. And in developing the veil of forgetting, it allows the Creator to trick Itself: to have the illusion that it can be imperfect, that there is some effort needed to find that perfection. And through this trick, the Creator is able to experience great depths of pain and love, experience great depths of sorrow, and have a journey that is rich with experience and catalyst. Without this illusion, this experience does not happen, and the One Infinite Creator goes on with a very pale or shallow beingness, you may say. But in adopting this veil and in attempting to navigate this paradox that you have identified, the One Infinite Creator comes to life through you and is able to dance more deeply within Its own creation, without realizing that it is dancing among its own unity.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, Q’uo. Thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we would transfer the contact back to the one known as Jim. We are Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am once again with this instrument. We would again ask if there is another query to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo. I have a question. How do we best let go of our third-density attachments, whether they be to people, or pets, or jobs, or money?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. You have asked an interesting query, for it is something that everyone must deal with at some time on their spiritual path. The third-density quality of attachments to pets, to friends, to procedures, to places, to things, is what each of you do when you are moving forward on your spiritual journey to see what value these attachments have for you. As you meditate upon how you feel about the value of any attachment, you look at it as something that is like a facet unto a jewel. You look at other facets of that same jewel. You see how they work within your experience. You look in your meditative state, then, to see if the purpose of that attachment of two or three or four or twenty things has played its role upon the stage of your life.

This is something that does require a meditative state to investigate the deeper levels of your being, the jewel of your being, so that you may fully accomplish what you have preincarnatively chosen to be attached to. For everything that you do, in one way or another, you have chosen to do as a portion of your spiritual journey. Everything is a step along that path. This is something that you may do at any time, but most of the time in meditation. It is the most effective way to complete the attachment, to see it has played its role, that you may let it go, and then see if there is another thing or person, place and so forth that you have an attachment to. This is your journey. This is what you are here to do. You are doing it well, my sister.

Is there another query at this time?

No, Q’uo. Thank you.

I am. Q’uo. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query to which we can respond?

Yes, I have a query. So, quite often it can feel like third density is a very daunting task, and seems like it’s going to last forever. So, can you give us maybe one most important lesson or message that we need to hear at this point on Earth, and how we can best align with it?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Again, this is a question that everyone must deal with. Have you played your role? How do you know you played your role? We could say that there are no mistakes however you play your role. However it feels best to play that role is the best way for you to do that. This is something that you have found in your life path to be somewhat confused. For you wonder is this role correct? Is there a better role? And again, we say, the universe is one thing, and there is no mistake. Discovering every role you play is a portion of the role of the One Infinite Creator that helps itself to know itself. You are a portion of that Creator. The Creator is within you. Everything you do teaches you and the Creator more about yourself.

Is there another query, my sister?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister.

At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo, and I’m again with this instrument. Is there another query within this circle to which we may respond?

I have a question, Q’uo. Thank you for taking my question. I’m very honored to be here. And I would like to ask if you would consider giving a teaching on the chakra system of the human form, if it’s not too much to ask.

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my sister. Indeed, this is not too much to ask, you may say, for there are many, many ways for us to discuss the nature of your energy system, identified as you have as the chakras, or as we commonly call them, the energy centers. We will offer an overview, as we see it, with some new words or perspectives placed upon them.

You commonly view in your third-density illusion, the spectrum of colors that you identify with the rainbow. And this is such with the energy centers within your body. This manifestation of seven colors, you may say, each having a true identity and a true quality that informs your entire being, beginning with the root chakra or energy center. That red-ray energy center that is focused upon the most primal beingness of your essence in creation, and that is that of survival, that of reproduction, the continuation of life, the foundation upon which life can exist within the creation. This is a constant and consistent energy center, and is necessary for all subsequent life to take place. For the Creator to continue its stance through creation, it must perpetuate Itself within the creation, and this is the nature of the red-ray energy center.

To move further along, there is the orange-ray energy center, which can be identified from several perspectives, one of those being a personal identity, or even the movement of the self within the creation. To work upon this energy center is to take the first step beyond the survival and the simple perpetuation, and to begin to understand that the self can move within the creation in a certain way . That the self has beingness that can be identified as a self. This energy center allows you to have a relationship with yourself and with other individuals.

To progress further along your energy center system, we reach the yellow-ray energy center, which is that center that is more social in nature. You may say that you discover within yourself the ability to identify and relate to groups of individuals, to have a social identity, to have a manifestation of yourself within society, and to have society influence you and to have a dance between these two things.

Moving further, we arrive at the green-ray energy center, that pivotal energy center of your current experience within the third density. That energy center that you as a peoples are attempting to open within your third-density incarnation to allow the love of the Creator to become present within your beingness and to become aware of that presence. This is the energy center of universal love—of love freely given. To open this energy center is to realize that all deserves love, that you have the capacity to give love to the creation. However, this energy center may become baffled within the creation. For love alone can often be confusing within an illusion, such as you experience, when it is not effective, when it reaches blockage or denial.

And so you progress further to the blue-ray energy center, which is the energy center of what we have called communication. This communication is not necessarily just an outward expression of your own words and your own beingness, but it can be a communication with the self, an ability to perceive the self, receive information to and from the self as you attempt to come to terms with your own beingness, and integrate those lessons that you have learned within your incarnation. And in doing so, come to a more truthful or honest understanding of the self that then may be expressed freely. To develop further in this energy center is to understand the nature of how to share your beingness, whether through words or other types of communication or action, in effective ways and to move about the creation in ways that do not baffle the flow of love, but instead allow love to arrange itself in various ways as it is called for within your situation.

To move further along the energy system, we reach the indigo-ray energy center, which we have called the gateway energy center. To work within this energy center is to become more and more aware of those spiritual energies present within each situation, to be able to perceive more and more the intelligent energy that moves in every situation that informs every catalyst that you receive or perceive in the creation, and to allow yourself to accept and understand and surrender to this movement of intelligent energy as you perceive it. There is great potential within this energy center also to find inspiration, to tap into intelligent infinity so that it can be manifest within your life in forms of service, whichever service you have discovered is proper for you to offer.

The final energy center is that which we’ve called the violet-ray energy center, which has a primary function of serving as a sort of meter or total manifestation of your entire energy system. It is, you may say, fixed for it is a reflection of your entire beingness. But it is through this energy center that the Creator moves into your being.

This is a simple explanation of the energy centers in the chakra system, as you have described it. And we would add another note that the purpose of your incarnation within the third density—and not just this incarnation, but all experiences that you have had within the third density—are intended to work within this energy system, to attempt to allow the flow of energy up through this energy system so that you may experience these different things and different ways that this energy manifests within your beingness and experience the catalyst that we have identified sometimes as blockage or distortion within this energy system.

These things will come to you naturally through your life experience. You do not need to seek, necessarily, to activate or open these things on their own. In order to balance your energy system and to open your chakras, it is simply necessary that you pay attention to the lessons given to you within your incarnation, to take them into meditation, to intend to search within them for the gift that they are offering you. And to realize that in attempting to discover that gift and integrate that lesson, the key to unlocking and clearing this energy system is already present without the need to focus upon the energy center itself—though such focus can be helpful in attempting to understand where certain situations can be placed within the self, and where those situations can be worked with in the energy system.

This is a great work intended for you within your incarnation, and we offer ourselves to help you with this work. If you are ever meditating upon your experiences, we of Q’uo can offer our energy to aid you and guide you and offer comfort through this very difficult process that requires your patience. And we are honored to do so.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, thank you for this valuable teaching and offering, Q’uo. Thank you so very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo. Some friends and I are performing mental exercises like meditation together and visualization together in an effort to develop our telepathic abilities. What is the value of developing telepathy in terms of creating a social memory complex here on the Earth, or moving toward fourth density? Is this worthwhile?

I am Q’uo, and we are aware of the query, my brother. The answer to this is dependent upon the intention with which you bring to such exercises. One can join others and attempt to play with such energies with shallow intention, only wanting to discover the curiosities or the excitement of perceiving something that is not readily accessible to you and not easily accepted by your society. This is not necessarily, we would say, harmful or counterproductive. But such shallow intention does not necessarily bring about any effort to manifest your social memory complex.

However, we do find that there are groups and individuals who engage in such exercises as an attempt to manifest the unity of the Creator in perceivable form, an attempt to show and demonstrate the nature of your creation as being deeper, more complex, more mysterious, and more connected than you as a society readily accept. There is also the ability of groups who do intense and deep magical work to develop these capacities so that the flow of communication between individuals can deepen and move beyond words, so that communication can happen without the necessity of vocalizing such communication and understanding. Concepts can be transferred between individuals and experiences can be shared together in unity, without the need to voice it and to split it up into various abstract concepts you call words in an attempt to share it with others.

To deepen the capacity to share these things with others without needing to use words can be incredibly valuable for groups doing such work—and indeed, inform your social complex in a way that helps to bring about the social memory complex. For as you carve these pathways between individuals, they become more and more available to you as a society and as a social memory complex. To practice these things with such an intention, to offer them to the social memory complex, allows these things to be more and more available upon your planet.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we transfer the contact again to the one known as Jim. We are Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and once again with this instrument. We would ask if there is a final query at this time?

I do have a question. Thank you, Q’uo, for being with us today and sharing the wisdom of your collective. I’m curious if there are any contemplations or understanding that you’re able to share that would be valuable as we are in proximity with the interstellar object known as 3I/ATLAS? If you’re able to speak or transmit any things that we should set our intentions towards or be aware of in its presence.

I am Q’uo, and we would ask if you might define the term that you use concerning atlas?

The 3I/ATLAS is an interstellar object. The third within the past few years that has come into our solar system, and it’s behaving not at all like anything we’ve ever seen in our third density before. And I didn’t know if there was any connection or any wisdom from your collective around its presence here in our solar system, or if there is something to be gleaned from its proximity to Earth.

And we feel that we have a better grasp upon your query, my sister. A response may be somewhat confusing, not because we wish it to be, but because there may not be language that can define exactly what this 3I/ATLAS might be. For there are beings of one nature and another that move throughout the one infinite creation of the Creator that have a purpose, that is exploration to discover more of their nature as well. They have moved somewhat further along the process of evolution than has any entity upon this planet and are curious as to what the entities upon this planet may have as their nature of being. For in the entire creation, there are various Logoi that create various manifestations of the Creator known as galaxies. And in your Milky Way Galaxy, there are many other types of creatures that have intelligence that seek to know more about themselves as the Creator manifesting in your being here on planet Earth and any portion of your solar system that has had any type of life form. This provides them with more information about the Creator, and they then can apply this information to their own spiritual journeys.

This is a rough analogy as to the students in the school of life of the universe that have become able to manifest a great deal of the nature of the Creator, and yet, they know that it is an infinite creation, so they travel about the universe and pass through various solar systems, such as your own, in order to discover more about the Creator and themselves. For they know that they are also the Creator.

Is there a further query, my sister?

I am unfamiliar with the term Logoi, if there’s a way to describe that.

I am, Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. The primal Logos of this infinite creation can also be seen as the Creator, and this primal Logos subdivides itself into a Logos, or a word that is a galaxy, such as your Milky Way Galaxy. There are infinite numbers of galaxies that contain various sub-Logoi such as your sun body, so that each entity that is a sun is a sub-Logos of a Logos such as the Milky Way Logos, which has 250 billion sun bodies such as your sun. Within it, there are an infinite number of these Logos entities that are in the Infinite Creation.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you. I appreciate your wisdom.

I’m Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we would also like to thank each entity here, each Creator, each co-Creator that has created the various queries that we have been honored to offer our opinion about. We think that this light of love that has shown within each heart is something that is making its presence known to the Infinite Creation, so that all of the creation knows there is a light shining here from each individual heart and soul. And so we thank you once again for taking our responses to your queries with that grain of salt. It has been an honor to be able to attempt to give you our opinions.

So at this time, we would ask that the light that we have gathered here this evening go back to the Creator, and that all who need healing be put into this light.

[The connection with Q’uo seemed to end before they could offer their traditional words of sign-off prior to the instrument offering the closing ritual for the circle.]

