Topics: Balancing love and wisdom; turning the other cheek; spiritual dimension of Hawking radiation; 3I/Atlas and its implications; mission of service through paranormal experiences and seeker support; the nature of humility; mysterious ancient stoneworks and their present-day meaning; healing, soul design, and challenging circumstances; energetic sensitivities in service to others.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. We are here in the feelings of love that you have created in your round robin, and we are basking in these feelings, for that love is part of the Creator’s love that made all that there is out of love. We thank you all for sharing your hearts and for taking the time to come here, taking time out of your busy schedules, where the nature of the unity of all things is not so clear. And yet when you come here, or in any such group, you are with those of like mind which can enhance your perception of the truth of the unity of you with everyone else and with the Creator. For the Creator has made all that there is to be expressed through you in a way that helps the Creator to know Itself.

This time of day is a time when there is much joy, for it is the end of your work week, and now you may relax into more of the spiritual essence of your being. And as you relax into what we have to say to you as we respond through this instrument to your queries, we ask that you take what we have to say with the proverbial grain of salt, for we are simply brothers and sisters who have moved a step or two further than you on the same path we are all traveling, back into unity with the One Creator

With that said, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Q’uo, I have a question. In these times of turmoil, how can we consciously balance the distortions of love and wisdom so that we progress more harmoniously upon the path of service to others?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. You ask a question which I am sure many in this group, and many around the world who are spiritual seekers, would also ask. As you look at the turmoil in the world around you, whether it is in your neighborhood, your larger family, school, work, politics, military—at any level of existence, that turmoil can provide you catalyst that may seem difficult to process. But catalyst, in being difficult to process, requires that you change some form of your being.

Perhaps you are not able to accept those who are causing the turmoil, and yet they are the Creator too. They are giving you a chance to grow, and by growing, we mean loving them as the Creator, looking past the third-density illusion of seeing them as separate from anyone else. This is the path that each of you travels in the third density. There will be one form of turmoil or another in your spiritual path, very, very frequently, for this is the third density with the veil of forgetting, which you must pass through and forget that all is one. By that forgetting, then, you get catalyst that helps you to grow and remember more by balancing the difficulties with your love, the anger with your love, the division with your love. Your love is the Creator’s love flowing through you, and it is a powerful love when you direct it with your free will.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question. Can you expound more on what it means, and how do you turn the other cheek? Seems so important in our life to learn this practice, but so incredibly hard to do.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Again, we move to the area of seeing the necessity and the blessing of turning the other cheek so that you may feel more of the difficulty that is around you as a means by which you can grow more because of that difficulty. There are many layers of difficulties which will require that you be able to turn the other cheek, open the heart in love, see the larger view, move out in your mind to the level of, say, the Moon or the Sun, and see the tiny Earth spinning on its axis through space and time, knowing that that Earth, Mother Earth, has a population of beings that are all facing the same situation.

Yet most are not aware that there is the need to turn the other cheek. Most simply exist in a way of accepting or not accepting, and then getting angry or feeling loving and not knowing exactly what is happening within their life. For they are not awake, as are you, to the nature of this third-density illusion that give catalyst so that we may turn the other cheek and, at the same time, metaphorically open our hearts in love and light for whatever has caused the turmoil.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as Austin.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and am now with this instrument. Again, we offer our gratitude through this instrument for the invitation you have extended to us to invite you in your circle of seeking. This invitation not only honors us, but allows us to offer our own perspective and service to you. It is in this offering of service and perspective that we ourselves are able to continue our own journeys. This experience is that which we are seeking upon our own path, and to be able to be with you our other-selves in this moment and in this capacity is a divine manifestation of our shared journeys back to the One Infinite Creator.

We wish that we could offer you a glimpse of the light generated by this circle of seeking, and indeed by all of those who come into contact with our words and our energy. We offer ourselves to you in whatever capacity you may ask. If you are seeking aid in meditation and seeking comfort within your difficult world, we await the invitation to join you in sending our own love and light to you, to help you in these moments of meditation and contemplation.

At this time, we would ask if there is another query within this circle to which we may respond. We are Q’uo.

I have a question, Q’uo. I was wondering if there is any spiritual significance to the Hawking radiation that a black hole emits as it decays over time, and if that Hawking radiation is connected to the creation of the Akashic Record.

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother. We can respond somewhat to this query, for there are mysteries embedded within these natural laws that have been discovered by some of your scientists that are intended, by their very manifestation, to offer hints to beings such as yourself as to the true nature of reality—both in its physical manifestation, as you have identified with the so-called Hawking radiation, and the metaphysical significance. We cannot offer a full explanation of the significance of this energy that has been detected coming from the black holes that you recognize, but we can affirm that there is an aspect related to what you have identified, the Akashic records, or the Records of Creation.

We would also point a hint towards the nature of the octaves of creation in their manifestation and conclusion feeding into each other, where the black hole signifies, in many ways, within your space/time reality, a conclusion point, a totality, or what you as a species have identified as an event horizon.

And yet the mystery of the ability of this radiation to seemingly escape from that conclusion and turn backwards into the creation which is concluding is indeed a great hint as to the nature of this ongoing process of evolution of the octaves. It is not simply a straightforward, one direction of evolution, but rather there are ways in which the process and progress of evolution influence not just that which comes after, but that which came before.

And within this seeming paradox and mystery lies hints as to the nature of the simultaneous and eternal aspect of reality, the eternal now, which is available to you at any moment. The ability of this radiation, as you have identified it, to exist as it does in a seemingly paradoxical way offers a hint to the true paradox of this process of evolution.

Is there a further question, my brother?

No, thank you.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another question in the circle to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo. I have a question regarding the structure which we on Earth are calling 3I/ATLAS and its approach and closeness to Earth, and whether that is in alignment with, or has anything to do with what we are also hearing as the fifth dimension that Gaia, Mother Earth, is moving towards?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my sister. As we examine the cultural discourse, you may say, around the so-called object that you have identified as 3I/ATLAS, we have found that there is much confusion and much speculation and much mystery. The amount of focus and attention placed upon this object somewhat limits our ability to speak about it clearly. For we, the Confederation of Planets in Service to the One Infinite Creator, are able to interface and offer our perspective only insofar as it does not violate your own sovereign free will.

[As] you, as a planetary population, speculate and find meaning within the mystery and seeming anomalous aspect of this object, and the ways in which it is presenting itself that are new and unusual—even for those among your population that do not pay attention to things like our craft that show within your skies—is intended to be a catalyst, is intended to push your planetary population’s imagination and desire to know more about the universe in a certain way.

This object indeed does have some significance, you can say, in this planet’s trajectory and evolution. There are no mistakes, you may say. This particular object has a unique type of beingness and manifestation that can be difficult for us to describe, but we ask you to imagine that the intelligence of the One Infinite Creator can manifest in many, many ways; in an infinite amount of aspects of intelligence that seek to express themselves in unique and interesting ways.

As you as a planet observe this object more and more, you may observe it also changing in its behavior. And there can be correlations, you might say, to these changes and the observations that you as a planet make. The connection between this object and the evolution of your planet, then, rests in this mirror effect: the way in which this object expresses itself to you as a planet. There is more that could be said about the meaning and significance of this object in relationship to your planet’s evolution, but we are afraid that this is for you as a planetary population to discover.

Is there a follow up to this question, my sister?

No, thank you.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query to which we may respond?

Yes. I’ve had many paranormal experiences through my life, and encounters with what are thought of as non-human intelligence. As is often the case, there have been challenges. I recognize and was inspired by this, and now do community building and host support groups for fellow seekers with similar backgrounds. I also create and attempt to make opportunities to inspire wonder, understanding and care in others. So I ask, can you please look at this path, this mission I’ve chosen in the context of my larger self, other incarnations, and provide me with bit of helpful, supportive insight that may help me or others in similar positions?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my brother. We appreciate the care put into the phrasing and presentation of this question, for we find it important that, when discussing such experiences as you have described within this query, that the focus be placed upon the greater meaning and the greater context in which they manifest.

We can offer some reflections to you that would ring true for many in your position, and we would start first with the seemingly paranormal aspect of what you have experienced, and how these experiences are at odds with the cultural understanding of how your reality works, and how this density manifests to you as a collective consciousness. Indeed, as you have probably experienced within your own life, these experiences place you at great odds with those around you. This is by no accident.

For an entity such as yourself that has a strong aspect of seeking and spiritual focus, there is an aspect of agreement made within these experiences prior to the incarnation. This is true for many entities that manifest and incarnate within your planetary sphere. However, when such experiences have such an impact on an entity, it can be quite apparent that these things have been planned by the entity in order to instill within them certain biases or certain experiences and even certain challenges, so that the act of processing these catalysts and approaching these challenges becomes the mission of the incarnation.

The plan that an entity came here with is to attempt to overcome, you may say, or to integrate such challenges. And in doing so, heal, in many ways, experiences from previous incarnations, or even offer healing to the greater collective in situations such as you have experienced and described. Indeed, these experiences can push an entity to attempt to bring these odd experiences into a path of service to others—particularly [service to] those who may also have such experiences, but may not be as well equipped, you may say, to process them or integrate them.

For these experiences that are offered to entities such as yourself have meaning imbued within them, not just for the individuals who experience them, but for the collective consciousness of your planet. They are, in many ways, symbolic and designed in order to communicate to you, as a greater social memory complex, various aspects of the unconscious collective self manifest upon your planet, attempting to bring itself into the forefront and be recognized by the collective consciousness of your planet.

The difficulty of these individuals who have such experiences in bringing them into the light of your greater collective consciousness and society is indeed symbolic of those things that you, as a planetary population, have focused upon at the expense of other aspects of your beingness. In order to bring these things to be accepted and understood so that they can be brought to bear in service to all of humanity, the challenge itself is necessary. For, as we have said in other ways, in order for understanding to take place, there must first be misunderstanding. And the act of bringing light where there was shadow and understanding where there was misunderstanding is one of the greatest gifts to the One Infinite Creator.

For the stage which you dance upon is the darkness cast by the veil of forgetting. You are not supposed to understand the experiences that you have, necessarily. You are not supposed to be fully aware and discover the heart of love and every moment immediately. But by being present in an environment where these things are difficult and not immediately apparent, the attempt to bring light to such experiences—and further, to use these experiences to pursue a choice of service to others or service to self—is the very meaning of this density of experience within your octave. And we offer our commendation and support for any who are able to grasp the thread, you may say, and point the needle of service to others while experiencing these types of anomalous or paranormal experiences.

Is there a follow-up to this question, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we would take leave of this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Trish. We are Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are Q’uo, and we are with this instrument at this time. It is with much appreciation and gratitude that we are able to join in this circle, to hear your queries, to share this energetic vibration and to be of assistance, not as an other-self that is lofted upon high, but rather as your comrade in this journey of seeking. And it is with that grace and that love that we would ask if there is a query to which we may speak?

Hello, Q’uo. What is the true nature of humility and how can embracing it lead to greater spiritual growth and connection with the Law of One?

We are Q’uo, and we are aware and appreciative of this query, my sister. Humility is a virtue and value that may seem at times hard-won, may seem out of reach or may not seem reflected back to you in your environment, be it a social environment or be it simply in the way that you experience your spatial environment, so to speak. However, it is, as mentioned, a powerful virtue and value to exercise within oneself, the means by which are normally quite unique to each individual. However, they all start at the same starting line, and that is through the full acceptance of self and the full acceptance of other-self.

It is through that exercise, that positioning of self in this space where self is loved, and all that comes in contact with and all that does not come in contact with is loved, that one may find and hone and discover that true source of humility, that part of self which says, “I am me. I am the Creator. And through that Creatorship, I am equal with all that is around me. For all that is around me is a part of me, and I a part of it.”

To further hone this exercise, we would humbly suggest the practice of meditation. As you know, we speak quite frequently about this particular practice. However, we would caveat that by saying that going into the silence with the intention of finding that stillness of self that is part of every other-self, sitting in that stillness and witnessing the unity that exists that is beyond the illusion, that is beyond the separation that one may witness outside of the space of silence, taking in that warm feeling, that hug, if you will, of the Creator’s love that sees the quality, that sees the even playing ground, and that sees the unity and oneness of all things. Really, genuinely sitting in that space, experiencing, remembering it, and taking note of how that feels within the practice of meditation.

Once the meditative practice has been at the very least embarked upon, then one may find oneself more readily available to that experience outside of the meditative practice to see the connections that exist in this seeming space of separation, and to have much grace to see oneself as equal to, perhaps, the other-self that has hurt you; perhaps to the tree that sits outside your window; perhaps to the wind that blows through your hair; or perhaps even to the most painful, stubborn bruise on the body. To see oneself as fully and truly connected to each minute speck of the illusion—again, that you witness or may not witness—and whenever you are able to feel that equality, to see that there is no greater, no lesser, but that all is a perfect and imperfect creation of the Creator manifesting itself, one may begin to drop the egoic identity, the words and concepts that one uses to separate the self from the truth that is reality.

One may be able to, in that sloughing off, find that the need to be a certain way, to show up a certain way, falls by the wayside as well. And in that [perspective, one] can see that the truest form of self is the most authentic and genuine form of self, the one that comes with the flaws, the one that comes with the, perhaps, misconceptions, the one that has much grace as well. And whenever one can see oneself authentically, through that connection and through that oneness, you may discover the gem that you wish to mine, that being the virtue and value of humility.

It is through this aspect of being which each in this circle and each in the creation can discover, that the open heart can more fully open, that the self-imposed strictures one binds to oneself that keeps one grounded into this separate illusion may more fully loosen—and in so doing, may inspire those around you to more fully loosen theirs.

We understand that you may encounter those who perhaps deeply struggle with humility. Perhaps they have a heightened sense of self, a need to exercise or present themselves in a certain way, a need to control or a need to be seen. It is through your own expression and development with humility, and your fumbles as well, that you may inspire those around you, even the most prickliest, to find their way towards that light. That light which inspires one to let go, to surrender, to witness without judgment not only other-self, but self. To see the beauty in the imperfections, to genuinely and deeply understand that there is no hierarchy in the truth, in the creation of the Creator; that all is but a flowing stream of tendrils of the Creator that moves ever so slowly but gently, that moves together fluidly; that there is not one wave that is stronger or weaker, first or last, but that it is all simultaneously and equally moving together, hand in hand, atom attached to atom.

And in that inspiration, you may find yourself flowing in that river of peace. You may find that you bump along and bring along friends on this journey.

Feeling as though we may have lost the plot of it, we would ask if there is a follow up to this query, my sister?

[Pause]

We are those of Q’uo, and we will accept that this query has been spoken to. And we would ask if there is another query that we may speak to?

Q’uo, may I ask a question?

We are those of Q’uo, and we would humbly and happily accept another query, my sister.

I am very interested in the earthworks that are left over from some civilization that we don’t know about. Are you able to offer any insider information as to their origin, and what the people were like that made them? And do these earthworks have any utility for the people that live now?

We are those of Q’uo, and with much gratitude, we understand and appreciate this opportunity to speak to this query, my sister. It is difficult for us to speak explicitly, or perhaps give a concrete and in-depth answer to your query, my sister. For we wish not to infringe upon your free will in the meaning that is made by each individual seeker for what these earthworks may perhaps suggest or inspire. We will say, however, that their formulation and the peoples through which they were created are merely reflections of your own civilization at this time, are merely reflections of your own beingness, in that they too were seeking answers, that they too were relating to their environment around them, that they too were trying to establish cosmology and godship and creatorship. That they were discovering their connection to the planet and formulating rituals and tokens of their own appreciation for that connection, their meaning perhaps lost to time in terms of their explicit meaning to these people, and so far that we can share, has a greater purpose outside of that civilization.

We would humbly suggest that each seeker who finds themselves relating to these earthworks around your planet, to look at them, to feel what they feel inside you, to take note of what comes up. Do they inspire? Do they motivate further seeking? Do they instill hope? Do they provide some kind of spark within you that questions your reality in ways towards oneness?

My friends, there are many of these places around your globe. And so far as this planet will continue to support human life, you and your friends will build similar structures. You have your own tokens, your own pieces, your own relics that will outlive your earthly vessel, that may inspire a population generations from now to further seek, to further question, to find their own meaning.

That, my friends, is perhaps the greatest gift of these earthworks, that they provide some kind of chronology of spiritual seeking. They are but a knot in a very long thread that goes throughout what you call time. A rope, if you will, by which seeker upon seeker may climb to new heights through the means of inspiration to see oneself in a greater universe, to see how each one thinks, to question how each other thinks.

It is through that seeking that one may put oneself in another’s shoes, be it an individual who exists at this time, or an individual who exists millennia prior, or multiple millennia prior, and one may find oneself on equal footing—as the one named Carla would say, a bozo on the bus, attempting to make sense of this illusion around you.

It is with sorrow, my sister, that we cannot provide more explicit information, but simply to impart that they are simple gifts, relics [of a] lost time that have deep meaning insofar as you may assign it. And know, my sister, that they had deep meaning for each involved in their creation, and that meaning may be tapped into in whatever way feels appropriate to each individual seeker. For meaning is but an expression of a larger dynamic that exists in the universe, that all meaning is truth, that all energy is unique yet somehow connected.

We appreciate this query, and we apologize, my sister. However, we would ask if there’s a follow up to this query to which we may speak?

No, thank you. There’s no reason for sorrow. I appreciate your answer, and it’s brought me joy.

We are those of Q’uo, and it touches our heart to know that we were able to speak somewhat to this query, my sister. At this time, we will take leave of this instrument and transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I’m Q’uo and am once again with this instrument. We would ask if there is another query at this time?

Yes, Quo. There’s a question from K, who writes: “If a wanderer has done deep inner healing, finding genuine harmony while continuing to face abuse, could the soul design such a life where outer conditions never change, even after immense growth has occurred? If so, what is the mechanism or purpose behind that choice? Or does healing the self eventually draw in higher vibrations and more loving circumstances?”

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother and my sister. We would say to you that the difficulties that you have experienced in your life journey are those which you have chosen and that have manifested in a way that may be somewhat more intense than you had intended them to be. But this intensity has been met by your resolve to move forward in your life journey, even though these difficulties are causing you constant difficulty and do not seem to be resolved.

And yet, my sister, we would say that there have been levels of this journey that have provided you with more and more attempts and success at growth of your spiritual nature, of seeing those difficulties around you as the steps upon this path that you have been on, not only in this life, but in other lives before this one. You have traveled this journey many times, for many lifetimes. And it may seem that it is not resolving or ending, but we would say to you, sister, that this is the path to the One Infinite Creator. The steps seem infinite. They seem sometimes not to be resolved, but your conscious mind cannot be aware of how it is happening, that they are being resolved. They are giving you growth of a spiritual nature. For this veil of forgetting operates oh so well, and that which you have planned has been more successful than you could ever imagine.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Yes, K writes: “For one who has done a lot of work to refine and align the energy centers, is it possible for the body and fields to become so sensitive to lower vibrations that ordinary interaction becomes physically painful? How do others’ energies affect one’s field? And how might a sensitive soul remain of service when such pain isn’t rooted in emotional imbalance?”

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Yes, this path that you have chosen has caused difficulties to your physical vehicle, because it is as sensitive to the world around you as is your heart, your spirit, your mind, and your emotions. You are a creature like a jewel with many facets.

The difficulties that you have programmed are those which continue to offer you more ways of learning that your body is something that will carry you through all of these difficulties, even when it seems like it will not. For there is a continuous type of learning and healing that comes with your perseverance, your setting your intention to take on difficulties, whatever they may be. See them as something that you can heal within yourself, for we are all reflections of each other. When we see something in another person that we do not like, it is that which we see within ourselves reflected to us by that other person. Thus we have a chance, and you have a chance, to see love as the answer to yourself and to the other person.

This is the great way that learning occurs within your third-density illusion. But for most people, it has not been so intense of an experience as it has been for you, and we applaud your efforts. You are moving forward in the most difficult of times and most difficult of experiences, and those are the way that you are meeting the challenge you gave yourself before this incarnation. We feel that you are more aware of this on the subconscious level. You have had downloads of this kind of experience before, where you have been inspired on your journey. So we hope that our meager and humble attempt at giving you the answer to your question may confirm these downloads that you have had in your past.

At this time, we would thank everyone here for opening your hearts to each other to create connections that may continue who knows how far into what you call your future, which is actually the eternal present moment, manifesting as various ways and times and experiences. You have been most inspiring to us in your simple being, in the way you feel the nature of your being and share it with others around you.

And we would, at this time, take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave you all in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.

