Topics: The difference between work in the mind complex and spirit complex; the nature of fear; different views of Orion; working with gifted children.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. We greet each in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator who is within each being within this circle, within all of the creation, awaiting discovery that each is that known as the Creator. We are honored to be asked by you to join your circle of seeking this day, for you to have taken the time out of your busy schedule to come here and join with seekers of like mind with your questions, with your comments, with your heart open, with the desire to know more about the nature of your being and the nature of reality.

We would ask you to utilize very careful discrimination when we reply to your queries with our thoughts. If they do not ring of truth to you, if they do not tell you something that deep inside you already know, leave those thoughts behind. Use only those that remind you of what you are and who you are and why you are here. If you will do this favor for us, we can speak more freely as we reply to your queries.

So that with that said, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Yes, Q’uo. I have a question. I’m unclear on the distinguishing qualities or differences between mind complexes and spirit complexes. I understand that we obtain spirit complexes in the third density, but how do we tell whether the inner work we’re doing is rooted in mind or spirit?

I am Q’uo and am aware your query, my sister. This is a good question, for the spirit is that which has the least distortion within your total being as a mind/body/spirit complex. It is that which has become a spark, shall we say, of the Creator. It enlivens your entire being, your mind, your body, and your spirit. It has the broadest view of all of the creation around you and within you that is possible for you to obtain at this point in your spiritual journey.

Your mind is that analytical tool that takes a look at everything around you that you experience and estimates its potential utilization on your spiritual path. The mind has a great deal of resources within its memory to utilize in your continuing journey, infinitely, back into unity with the One Creator. So your mind is the practical side of your beingness. Your spirit is the metaphysical side, the side that has the broader view that the mind can increasingly become aware of and expand its nature of perception of the reality through which you move, and the nature of your being as you move through it.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, no Q’uo. That was very clear. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Hello Q’uo. What’s the nature of my fear, the fear in my life, and how can I transform it into love and collective empowerment?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Fear is the other side of the coin of love. Fear can become catalyst that when you can describe or discover the cause of fear within your being, you can work with that fear to discover greater portions of your own being that fear has kind of, what we would say, locked down or minimized. For that which you fear seems to be other than who you are, which is the One Infinite Creator in, what we might call, a stepped-down nature. You are a young Creator, and you can grow more and more into your full Creatorship as you work with whatever it is that you fear at any point in your spiritual journey. For there may be fears of one kind or another that serve as catalyst, as stepping stones, to help you move further on your spiritual path. This is also seen as the food for growth.

So whatever you fear, face it, embrace it. Look into its being, its origin, how you can accept that which is feared as being a beautiful part of yourself—another piece in the puzzle of the One Creator that exists within your being. Then your love expands to experience and accept more of you and who you are until your nature of being, at some point in this incarnation or a further incarnation, shall once again become unified with the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, that’s good. Thank you so much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister, for your query and your open heart. At this time, we shall transfer this instrument to the one known as Trisha.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument. May we ask if there’s a query to which we may speak?

I have one. Hi, Q’uo. It’s nice to be here, as always. I had a question on semantics that I would just like your opinion on. In my studies of some of the Native American traditions, I came across a book called Universal and Spiritual Laws of Creator.1 I believe it’s Lakota; I might be wrong. But it’s a set of channeled material, and it speaks to the Law of One. It’s very beautiful, and that group that they’re channeling, they call themselves from the Orion. I don’t think it’s the same Orion that Ra spoke to because I know that’s a huge part of space with multiple star systems. I just wondered if you could comment on it and had an opinion about it?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware [of] and appreciate your query, my sister. This is a particularly interesting line of questioning as semantics are indeed important and ultimately potentially fallible, as we all know. Language can take on many different facets, can express many different ideas, and in its inherent infinity, [can] create paradoxes and confusions. And so, we understand the desire to tease out, if you will, from the language that you use, the words that you speak and that you write to understand the truth behind those words. What do they mean? How do they translate?

We can say that the naming of certain entities and various belief systems may mirror those in others, and that may cause confusion in your experience, wherein there is a group that identifies itself as those of Orion, when you have heard in other schools of thought, namely those of the Confederation, that there are entities also known to you as Orion. However, we would state that these names may not necessarily mean that they are of the same identity [or] of the same group. Instead, we would suggest that there is always potential overlap, potential reuse of words; of names, potential mistranslations.

We would say that while we cannot state specifically that they are completely separate, we can suggest that what is ultimately important is the use of the information you get from these entities from this material, and how it impacts your journey, how it impacts you in your heart, in your soul. If, in scanning this material from these beings, [your heart] feels it comes from a place of love, that it is sourced from something outside of that which you know as fear, and if it feeds you in your spiritual journey towards the One Creator in a way that is loving and accepting and open hearted, that releases judgment, then we would say that that is of the utmost importance. The name may be left aside.

If the material you scan creates any sense of fear or judgment, if it does not inspire, if it does not spark beauty within you, if it does not translate to acceptance and love, then perhaps that is the greater message rather than the name itself. And so hearing that this material has importance to you and resonates, we feel that that is perhaps the more important piece of their identity, that their energetic signature is one that sparks positive feelings and sensations, that motivates one in seeking, that inspires the heart and the soul—that is the true identity rather than the use of the sound vibration complexes you may use.

We understand that this can be quite confusing. There have been times when there have been many entities named many names. And so again we just caution that one use one’s own discernment in the way that one interfaces with the material and release the attachment to the name itself.

May we ask if there is a follow up query, my sister?

No, that was clear. Thank you.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. May we ask if there’s another query to which we may speak?

I’m very grateful to be here with you and be here with the group. My question has to do with the fear that we have all been talking about today, and how we can best be of service to help all of our fellow brothers and sisters work through their own fears as well as our own. I seem to see people in my life and in other people’s lives here that go through the same sort of fear, and I would really like to be able to help them. Can you speak on this, please?

We are those of Q’uo, and we receive and appreciate and understand your query, my brother. As mentioned before, fear is the opposite side of this coin of love and understanding, and therefore being two faces of this same dynamic. We can understand that there is a particular pattern or cycle that those on this planet may experience this sensation, this emotion.

From our universal view, looking down upon you on this planet and seeing this classroom which you chose for yourself, we can empathize that you experience fear. That you have designed this particular stage upon which you dance to provide elements that create the environment for fear. And we do not mean to invalidate that fear by speaking to it. We simply mean to provide our own perspective about the greater play that you participate in when experiencing this fear. We can understand its discomfort, and how it may influence your actions or your thoughts; how it can cause one to close the heart, to move more inward, to separate self, not only from other-self, but from creation itself—though creation itself is inherently and always tied. It can darken the veil, make it thicker, seemingly more unable to be penetrated.

Fear is the creation of that illusion within the illusion that makes one feel so separate, and we can understand how the environment on this planet can produce such an experience. You came here in this incarnation to learn the lessons of love and acceptance, to work beyond the fear and the judgment, but you did so with the understanding that it would be challenging. That there would be work to do. That that work is of a positive nature. That the way you interface with one another would be catalyst. That the way you view and see the environment would create this catalyst as well.

And so, when you are in this experience of fear, we would humbly suggest first that one exercise much grace for the self. That one view oneself as the mother towards the child. That one have much patience and empathy, knowing that you are simply reacting [to] and experiencing this illusion. That you are attempting to make sense of it. That you are placing the costume upon the self on this stage of experience.

Once one has been able to immerse oneself in that grace and allow oneself that space to be in fear, we would suggest focusing on that fear. One may do the balancing exercises of increasing that fear, taking it to its extreme within an intentional space of silence, allowing oneself to feel that fear fully, knowing that one is always safe and held, allowing all of those sensations to boil up within the self in the cycles of meditation, and then seeing it for what it is: as simply this sensation. And in that space, issuing a genuine apology and a genuine forgiveness, allowing it to become the self, envelope the self, seeing it for what it is; accepting, forgiving and eventually releasing.

We understand that saying that is potentially far, far easier than actually practicing, but we would assure you that continued practice and meditation, with these particular types of exercises, are very helpful and can allow oneself to release oneself from the binds.

Now another element to releasing that fear is the exercising of faith. The knowledge that you are always and ever held by the Creator. That everything is perfectly imperfect. That every experience is intentional. That everything is divinely designed to provide the catalyst whereby the choice of love is made. That is ultimate faith. That is the practice of faith. That is the empowerment of faith.

Remind the self, in these moments where you’re attempting to forgive and release the fear, that you are an eternal being simply on this small experience, much like a traveler going between destination and destination. You are simply in this moment in this body as this entity, but your soul is eternal and forever. This fear, this experience will be gone, will move away to make room for something new. And the cycle will continue on and on. You will greet and meet fear again, but each time, with intentional practice, the heart will move and grow and open more fully.

The strength in your will and the foundation of faith that you are building becomes ever stronger, becomes more integral to your being. And though the body may change, though your identity may change, your name may change, even your planet may change, that foundation of faith and the purity of your heart are both like baggage that you take with you throughout your eternal experience. They’re always there to tap into. They’re always there to inform you. You simply can take the time to ground yourself, reorient yourself, and remind yourself of the open heart and of the faith.

We understand that there are those upon this planet who have coined the term faking it until you make it, and sometimes that particular practice is also helpful. If one can recite affirmations and mantras in regards to your fear, telling oneself, as was spoken earlier, “I am strong.” Reminding oneself that, “I am eternal. I am powerful. I am the Creator. I am source and love and perfection.” Then there is not a thing that can sway you in the eternal walk that is the incarnation beyond this incarnation, the everything, the unity, the oneness that is all.

Reminding oneself that there will be cycles of this nature. Having the grace and patience for the self, taking the time to process and integrate fear—accept it and love it, and release it without judgment—are all powerful exercises.

And in response to the second portion of the question, of how one may respond to and be of service to those around one who are in fear, we would state much of the same. The going to the other with much grace. The extending of one’s hand, the opening of one’s arms. The embracing of the other-self as a mother to a child. The seeing them for their fear and holding them close, knowing that they too are blinded in this illusion that we play in. That they too are attempting to make sense of things that seem very frightening or confusing, and knowing that deep down these are all lessons. And that in that moment, you two are providing lessons to one another: the lesson of faith, the lesson of acceptance, the lesson of compassion. The lessons are always there and always present.

In so doing, these actions of compassion, of love, of grace, one may impart upon the other in fear those same values: that they can have grace for themselves. That they can accept fear. That they are strong, stronger than this identity they’ve attached themselves to on this planet. That they are perfect and that what is the ultimate mantra of this experience: all is very much well, all will very much be well.

Every step on this journey was predesigned by those who walk it to give you these experiences, whereby you learn more of yourself as the Creator and more of other-self as that same Creator. Simply walking that path with that other-self, listening, hearing—truly hearing, understanding and accepting, and sharing your own light are ways to assist the self and the other-self from these spaces of darkness and into the greater light of what you may call reality, that being the loving expanse of the creation.

We would ask if there’s a follow up to this query, my brother.

It’s a beautiful answer. Thank you, my friend.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we shall release our contact from this instrument and move back into the instrument known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am once again with this instrument. Before releasing this contact with this instrument, we would check to be sure if there is another query or not?

I have a question Q’uo. I’ve been wondering how to best support what can be referred to as gifted children, intellectually gifted, that may have aspects of what we call attention deficit disorder on this plane, as well as sensory sensitivities and sensitivities in general. I know that a lot of seekers may have felt like this when they were a child or presented as gifted, and how it doesn’t seem as if some of our current structures are really built to support these type of individuals. So I was wondering if you had some advice for parents, teachers, caregivers on how to support these children in their spiritual growth and assist them in making sense of being different in this density from their peers?

I am Q’uo, and we appreciate your query, my sister. You have asked the question which is most significant at this time within your illusion, as there are more of these gifted children being born into the third density to become those, you may call, way showers. Those who use their gifts to expand the perception of the nature of reality, not only within their own being, [but] within those who are their caregivers, their parents, their friends, their teachers.

We would suggest that this type of a gifted child is very sensitive to all inputs of energy and information that come into his field of perception, and that it is well to see that such a child is treated as one who knows much more than most children and needs a more individualized type of teaching or education. This individualization of education [may] take whatever form you intuitively feel would be helpful to the child. We would suggest that you invite the child to join you in times of meditation, in order that both of you might, shall we say, get on the same wavelength and find within each the still small voice of the One Creator that can guide each of you in the process of education of the child.

This is a process that will, of necessity, need to become individualized in each field of endeavor, so that the child’s needs are seen and felt both intuitively and intellectually, to be of whatever nature is of the moment. This requires a great deal of energy on the part of any teacher or parent, so that the child may have its needs recognized and met in a way that it is most able to grasp.

There is the possibility of looking within the experience of the child and seeing and feeling and intuiting how it is responding to the efforts that you teach, or anyone teaches, so that it may be enhanced in those areas where it is perhaps falling short of its own expectations. This will allow you and the child to move more in rhythm, which the natural learning process provides for each seeking soul that incarnates within this third-density illusion in order to discover more of the nature of its own being as the One Creator, the nature of the world about it being the One Creator, the ability of the child to see how this One Creator in all things is expressing Itself through the child.

This is a process that will not end, even after this incarnation is over, but is a process that will be enhanced so much more during the incarnation for the gifted child and for the average student of their density at this time. The open heart of parent, teacher, friend or neighbor is that which is the most helpful food for growth. The acceptance of the child as it is, so that it may move further along its spiritual path at an earlier age than most are able to do. The open heart, the intuition, the desire to serve, the meditative state: these are the tools that we would recommend that you utilize with the gifted child that you have been blessed to bring him to incarnation.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. We thank each entity here today, each seeker of truth, each facet of the One Creator, for joining us in this circle of seeking the one in all. You have been most inspirational to us. We look upon your journeys in the third density as being the most difficult journey you will ever take. This is the one which lays the foundation for all future experiences in the succeeding densities that you will experience as seekers of truth. And this is what you all are here to help each other do. We are amazed at the love and light that this circle has formed. It reaches high into the heavens and alerts the angelic presences of your being of love.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group, leaving you as we found you, in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

Full title: Maka Wicahpi Wicohan: Universal and Spiritual Laws of Creator; Star Law Manual of the Galactic Federation, by Standing Elk. ↩

