Topics: Advice for launching a channeling group; humanity’s potential future and our service therein; serving vs. overriding free will of an other-self; relating to those entities known as cryptids.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. We are with you always, if you seek for our service in your meditations. And at this time, we are so honored to be with you as you meditate as a group and come together to open your hearts to each other, to find that you have the love of Creator moving through you each time that you take a breath, take a step, and make more decisions in the third-density illusion of separation. You are those who are aware that this is an illusion created by the veil of forgetting that all have so they may learn more about the nature of their being by penetrating that veil as conscious seekers of truth. So we do thank you for your love, which we return to you.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query to which we may respond?

I have a query. My wife and I are planning to connect more with the Creator and to develop spiritually. And as a way of getting back to service to others, we were considering starting a channeling group. I was wondering if you had any general advice for anyone wishing to create such a group, and also one question about physical proximity. How important is it that the members of the group be together in one room, or can there be one or more members that are many miles apart, and how that might affect that channeling circle?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. You have asked the query that is most important to any spiritual seeker that wishes to serve as a channel or instrument for any entity that is hoped for as the source of inspiration.

Firstly, we would say that it is important to be together in the same location so that the energies that you have together may blend in a manner that helps to protect the group from any outside influences that might be difficult. We would also suggest that there be a means of providing a protection for the place of your channeling for the same reason: that there are many, many entities within this infinite creation that you do not wish to hear from. So if you could perform a ritual such as the Banishing Ritual of a Lesser Pentagram in the place where you will have your channelings, this will provide you protection from any entity that you would not want to hear from.

We would also suggest that if you are channeling only your higher self or a guide, that you may do this without any other kind of restrictions. For these are personal sources of information that can give you very inspiring messages for each step of your spiritual journey, and give you the overview of what the creation about you is that which allows the Creator to know itself in many different facets.

We would also suggest that if you do not have the opportunity to channel your guides or your higher self, and you’re channeling sources that are not supposedly of this planet, or you do not know where they are from, that you need to observe the protocols that the one known as Carla has provided for all such channels. That is that you look within yourself to find those qualities that you would be happy to live for and glad to die for. And when you are then in a channeling situation, that you challenge any source of the information you are receiving in the name of those qualities.

Now we also must mention that there are processes that you may go through to prepare yourself for channeling that are what we have called tuning, which those known as Gary, Trish, Austin, and Jim have just provided for themselves so that, as a musical instrument that plays in the orchestra, you will hit the notes that you hope to hit. So the tuning and the challenging are most necessary in any channeling process that does not include entities that you are aware of that may be your higher self, [or] any guide. So this is our recommendation, my brother. Do you have a follow up question?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. And this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and am now with this instrument. We express again, through this instrument, our gratitude to be invited to join this circle. And we express our gratitude to the instruments present for their fidelity to the tuning process and the challenging process that helps us to enter this space and join you. We would also offer gratitude to this instrument for offering us a reminder to express a request of this circle and all who may become aware of our words. And that is simply that you take what we share with what you call a grain of salt, you may say, in that you utilize your discernment in receiving and integrating our responses so that you rely upon your own faculties to determine the truth, and not rely upon us as authorities to hand you the truth pre-packaged, you may say. We thank this instrument for the dance of channeling between the source and the instrument can often be a complicated one, and such reminders are helpful for us and for the group.

At this time, we would ask if there is another query to which we may respond. We are Q’uo.

Hello, Q’uo. What can you tell us about the potential future of humanity and the role that we will play in it?

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my sister. And we appreciate the broad potential that is alive within this query. We offer our perspective to groups such as this from a vantage in which we see many potentials. We are able to view—what we have called in your system of physics—time/space, which allows us a greater perception of what you experience as time. From your perspective, veiled within the space/time of third density, you do not have available to you this perspective that allows time to be more malleable, more fluid, to have a greater vantage point and understand how time and time/space works.

For you, it seems as though there is a linear path that you are stuck within, and you must abide by the so called flow of time. But from the perspective that we have, which allows us to view with some distorted accuracy both space/time and time/space, we are able to perceive time as less of a linear flow. Instead of a stream flowing in one direction, you may say, there are a system of waterways that include lakes and oceans alongside streams, and other types of interesting metaphors that we could call upon.

However, to speak to the heart of your query, it is a complicated task for us to view the future of your peoples upon your planet, for you exist in a time upon your planet of great volatility, of great potential. There is much happening both upon the surface that you can view, and beneath the surface in the hidden realms of your planet that are allowing for various types of shifts and reconfigurations. These manifest in ways that seem quite confusing to your peoples upon the surface. It generates, you may say, great catalyst for your peoples to contend with.

We would, at this time, offer the perspective that we wish to continually emphasize when we share with groups such as this: that though the catalysts bring with them things that seem quite unpleasant, things that may seem painful and discomforting, even scary; that they allow for the perspective of your veiled consciousness to look to the future with bleakness; that this perspective is quite limited and is indicative far more of your own distortions as an individual and as a collective, rather than an accurate view of what will come or what may come.

And indeed, many who read these words or who hear us are those that we have called wanderers. You have come to this planet explicitly with a desire to be here for such opportunities. You have come not just to witness the difficulties and the seeming chaos that manifests when this reconfiguration happens upon your planet, but also to offer it your love, to hold this transformation with a perspective that allows the Creator to move through you and allows others to witness the Creator through the light that you shine, and allows them to recognize the light of the Creator within themselves.

The primary goal of these wanderers and travelers who have come to this planet to incarnate at this time is not necessarily to aid directly through acts of service and help, though this is certainly one manifestation of that service that is intended. But rather, the primary desire was to act as a catalyst to make the love and the light of the Creator more available, to bring the potential for those upon this planet, to allow it to move through them, to see it within themselves so that you may all, as a planetary population, begin to hear the song of the Creator, to witness the love and the light manifest in every situation, and allow this love and light to move your body and heart and soul upon this planet.

This involves, during this time of transformation and transition from the third density to the fourth density, much, much catalyst. And this catalyst is increasing upon your surface planet, as we know many here are aware. We emphasize again that how you view this catalyst, how you understand your place upon this planet, and how you predict what the future may bring for your planetary population and for you is itself catalyst for you to use as a gift, for you to understand as a reflection of your own beingness.

We encourage you, as you contemplate what is potential upon your planet and where your population may go, to understand that these questions are questions of the self. They may seem like grand outward questions, and you [may seem] but a small, individual player upon a huge, grand stage. But we encourage you to meditate upon the vastness of your inner world and how this outer world exists within you, and how you have within you the infinite power of the One Infinite Creator to use and understand your perception in order to bring about more of the love and light that you came here to share.

So when you ask us a question such as this, we would like to emphasize the potential within yourself to bring about the most grand positive change upon your planet. But this grand positive change, as we frame it, happens first within yourself. It is a realization of opening the heart, of releasing those things that you have accumulated within your incarnation and allowing them to fall away as you let the love and light of the Creator to burn more brightly within you.

As you experience this transformation for yourself, you begin to view the world about you in different ways. The catalyst that you view becomes more apparent as the gift for what it is. The opportunities for you to serve others in direct or indirect ways becomes more and more apparent. And so even in a seemingly chaotic and difficult environment, the opportunity for the love and the light of the Creator to manifest becomes even greater.

We share this perspective in response to this query, for we do view, in your space/time and time/space continuum, the possibility and probabilities for increasing difficulty, but also see great, great potential through this difficulty for the love and the light of the Creator to awaken within each soul upon this planet.

We encourage you to continue your daily practice of meditation, of bringing in to your heart those things that trouble you, those things that make you uncomfortable, those pains that you experience or witness about you, and hold them within your heart. Do not allow them to push you from your center. Accept them as an aspect of your own being. And as you hold them without judgment and without evaluation, they will transform within you, and thus the outer world will be transformed. And one day, you, as an individual and a planetary population, may wake up to realize that this transformation has taken hold upon your planet and the light of the fourth density dawns.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

[Pause]

We are Q’uo, and as we sense the silence of a lack of follow up, we offer our close through this instrument and thus transfer the contact to the one known as Trisha. We are Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument. It is with much joy and with much excitement that we again get this opportunity to connect with each one in the circle, to see your beautiful faces, to witness the loving energy circulate around this room, and to simply be present for your own seeking. You are truly a beautiful group of beings who are attempting to navigate this often-confusing illusion, and so we consider ourselves blessed to have a chance to walk alongside you.

And it is with this gratitude and this excitement that we would ask if there is a query to which we may speak? We are those of Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo, I have a question. When we step in to help another person along the path, at what point does our intervention support their free will, and when might it unintentionally override it?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware and appreciative of this query, my sister. For we can sense and have heard you speak about the potential catalyst of this dynamic which you have experienced, and we can understand how that may be challenging for you live on a planet and at a time where many do not see themselves as eternal beings, and many also do not see the infinity that exists within the incarnation. And with those two polar opposites, there may seem to be a struggle, a tug of war between sustaining and supporting an other-self, and allowing that other-self to make their own decisions and respecting or accepting their free will choices.

We understand and have much empathy for this experience. To speak specifically to what the line is, if you will, is a bit challenging from our perspective, for we see all of this dance in which you play as immensely intentional; that each step, though you may seem to step on another’s toes, was pre-planned, was perfection and is perfection. That loss is not truly loss, that gain is not truly gain, that all exists simultaneously. And so it is a bit of a struggle to speak specifically to this line. However, we shall attempt to navigate what we see through your eyes, as your experience, where that line may fall for you.

We can understand the deep desire to lend a hand, to be a supportive voice for an other-self. At times that support may manifest in ways that are more tangible, that are more forceful. And by forceful, we do not mean violent. We simply mean that they require more action. We would say that the intention behind these actions are what are the most important pieces to those actions, for we see that it is an action derived out of pure service to that other-self. You see that other-self struggle, or you see that other-self in pain; or conversely, you see that other-self in joy and you want to attempt to speak to that to support them, to bolster them, to dance among them, to bring them back into harmony with themselves and this illusion. And so we would say that the intention is what is most important, that these actions that may be seen as infringing upon free will are based within a purely service-to-others orientation.

We would see that dynamic reflected many times in the third-density-to-second-density relationship as well, seeing the way that people upon this planet tend to and care for their pets and would like to support their longevity and their journey, to help them utilize this experience, this incarnation, to its fullest, to see it through to its more fruitful end, maybe. And all of that is blessed and beautiful and so cherished and seen. And when those attempts do not, shall we say, come to the same intended ending, we would express that, as mentioned before, all paths are intentional, all moments are pre-planned in some respect. It is merely how one relates to these pre-planned excursions we take in our lives that is part of a manifestation of the free will.

So when these moments do not have the ending that you intended or hoped for, that you find much peace and grace in knowing that again, nothing is lost, nothing is gained. All is as it is because there is nothing more than this moment.

And so when you feel as though you are infringing upon the free will of an other-self, ask yourself, “What is my intention here? What is my motivation here? Is my motivation out of support? How can I meet that need?” The listening ear is always a good option. The outstretched hand, of course. But ultimately, you are not responsible for the actions or the thoughts of an other-self; and attempting to assist, in our eyes, is only a catalyst when an expectation has been placed upon the self in the support or in the ending. The seeker who is aware of their motivations as they attempt to support an other-self can recognize, can see and can accept that which is often unrecognizable or unacceptable, and thereby is able to act in ways that are not infringing.

And again, we say this not to say that the actions that one must take, or feels that they must take, in an incarnation to support an other-self are of a negative polarity, for we see how, in attempting to assist an other-self, the actions may be again more forceful. And that is [or at least can be] an action that is pure of heart that is pure in its service. And perhaps that is the exact catalyst that the other-self is requesting in that moment, to be shown love, to be shown that kind of support that says no, that says please, that says we love you, that says we need you, that says we see you and respect you. That kind of action may instill upon the other-self a greater sense of self-awareness, a greater sense of cosmic awareness that helps one peek even for a moment outside of the depths that pain and confusion can create within the soul.

And so, my friend, again understanding that this is quite the dance, we would state that you check in with yourself about your motivation when you are engaged in such a practice, and that you do so with much grace for yourself, and that you see or discover that such actions may be truly powerful gifts for the person that you are supporting, and that again, you are only responsible for yourself and your actions.

Take these moments where you struggle into meditation and see the beauty of what you have offered, even in those moments that have not had the ending you planned. Recognize the beauty of the support. Even though it may not seem in that moment that you did truly touch that heart in some way, and that that service, though maybe not felt in this moment on this planet, redounds outward to the universe and is felt in those beautiful moments of life between lives. Your service is ultimately a record, a book, if you will, of love.

We would ask if there is a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, Q’uo. That was beautifully balanced. Thank you.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my dear sister. At this time, we shall leave this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Gary. We are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo, and it is with peace in our hearts that we interface with this circle, this circle of seekers who exist in a world that more often than not seems to exhibit anything but peace. And before we would get underway, we would remind each of the oasis that awaits one within that is of peace and stability in a world that, as it is perceived to the senses, may at times seem to be tearing itself apart.

We are Q’uo and would ask if there is a query within this circle?

There is a question. We often encounter, as humans, other beings, usually labeled as cryptids or other entities. How are we to address them, to see that we can continue our spiritual growth or human evolution? How are we to address them? If that’s known?

We are those of Q’uo and have received this query, our brother. And as is true with so many questions, we find ourselves unable to offer a one-size-fits-all prescriptive response in terms of what steps an entity shall take, or how an entity shall go about this or that in question or objective. We may offer instead some general counsel for third-density beings who find themselves having intersected with or sensed something which is of a mysterious nature, something which is unknown to the surrounding society, whether that unknown thing, entity, or manifestation be within the space/time realm of your third density that is of a biological or physical nature, or of a metaphysical or nonphysical nature—and that is, as with so much if not all catalysts which greet the self: to examine the self.

What is the self’s response to this moment, to this entity, to this being? Is there a simple and passing curiosity? Is there something deeper and abiding which calls the self to this connection and investigation? What happens within the entity as a result of this encounter? Does such a thing fit within the third-density being’s free conception or philosophical outlook on the world and universe? Or does it challenge that outlook? Or does it unlock and open up new avenues or doors within the self? So on and so forth.

Myriad are the ways that one may be catalyzed by such an encounter. If communication is sought, that may or may not be available to the entity, depending upon the circumstance. But an entity can always make such an attempt. Perhaps—this instrument chuckles—by leaving the slice, or rather whole pizza, out for the Bigfoot, one may attract to oneself a new friend.

While we have fun with this line of thinking, communication across various boundaries are possible, across densities, across realms between inner and outer, and so forth. What is the meaning of the encounter which has occurred as we were previously exploring? This is for the entity to investigate. But perhaps, we may continue, it is of the nature of synchronicity, and perhaps it has greater import for the entity upon their journey. For many are those who are awakened by the seemingly chance encounter with the mystery as it may poke through the curtains of your consensus reality. Maybe there is something deeper to explore in that particular encounter.

May we ask if there is a follow up to this query? We are those of Q’uo.

No, thank you very much.

And we thank you, our brother, and appreciate your openness and curiosity for the illusion within which the third-density entity is birthed and in which they grow, no matter the society upon your planet, that is contained within a limited box, shall we say, of perception. However advanced the third-density society, there is always an infinite expanse beyond the boundaries and limitations of conception and physics and language and all which can be understood by the mind.

At this time, we would transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. At this time, we would ask if there might be a final query?

Yes, Q’uo, thank you for this joyous encounter. My question is about how seekers might find what they would live and what they would die for, and any guidance that may be available as they seek that information to study their path?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. We would suggest that this great journey of discovering that which has the most meaning to you is something that each seeker must take on his or her own. We would suggest that you use the meditative state to look deeply within yourself to find that still, small voice of the Creator of all that there is that can reveal to you what these qualities or this quality might be for you at this time. For as times change, perhaps qualities change. But to find the first time of the recognition of this quality, the meditative state can connect you with the Creator that can give you this information, perhaps in thoughts that are too deep for words, in feelings, in images, in past experiences. Perhaps even looking along the lines of potential possibilities for your future.

You can do this on a regular basis, perhaps in the morning or the evening, to meditate so that you make a journey of steps that reveal themselves to you in a way that you feel is correct, and that this inspiration be a kind of seed to let grow within your being until you feel the sureness of this quality that is yours. This is a journey that may take a short time or a long time, depending upon your preincarnative choices, for each has made plans for the incarnation that contains many qualities which may have that answer for you.

We would ask if there might be a follow up query, my sister?

No, thank you.

We thank you, my sister. And we thank all once again that are in this circle of seeking, for bringing your hearts open wide, your questions clear, your desires sparkling with joy.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group and this instrument, rejoicing with you as we move into the love and light of the One Infinite Creator with you. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

