Topics: Opening to new (presumably) Confederation sources.

(Austin channeling)

I am Laitos, and I greet this circle through this instrument in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are honored to be called to this group as you embark on a somewhat new adventure. We are called not just through the invitation to join you, but as you join together in your hearts, with your eyes upon the horizon, seeking new experiences in the method of service that you call channeling. You send a signal, a type of beacon that resounds outward in your realms of time/space that is detected, not just by us, but by many others who leap at the opportunity to join you in this service.

We express our appreciation to this group and to this instrument for the dedication and care taken in the tuning and challenging process. We commend this instrument for reiterating and repeating the challenging at the opening of this contact upon sensing hesitation and distraction due to a slight shift in the procedure thanks to those of Q’uo stepping aside so that we of Laitos alone can make contact with your group.

We would speak some through this instrument to allow him to become more accustomed to this somewhat different yet familiar energy. Upon reaching out to this instrument, we offered a type of conditioning that he is somewhat familiar with from our time with this group when you were new upon this path. The experience was that of pressure and energy and excitement in the heart area much akin to simple nervousness and excitement, yet amplified in this context. This conditioning both allows the instrument to become aware of our presence, but also serves as a symbolic beacon of our energy, as we express and live within the realms of love, signified and in harmony with your heart energy center.

As we join you in an attempt to help you, perhaps, connect with new sources to explore the possibilities of what is available to you as instruments seeking to channel sources from beyond yourself in service to others, we would do our due diligence and again ask what we of the Confederation have a habit of asking before each of our communications, and that is the words you’re familiar with: that you take no thought or concept or word too seriously in what we share; that you understand it as perspective to be considered against your own discernment and not accepted without question.

This will be even greater of an aid in a session such as this, when you are working with somewhat unfamiliar energies and attempting to grasp accurately a stream or flow of concepts and energies that are new to you, for they will be different than what you are accustomed to. If you do us this favor, then the possibilities of what can unfold in this experiment are greater. And we would be very grateful for the opportunity to work more freely with you upon you granting us this favor.

We have tuned in, you may say, to your exploration of how this process may unfold. The contact that we make with you, not just us of Laitos, but any member of the Confederation, is molded and shaped by your own will and your own design, and this can unfold as you desire.

As we sense the energy within this group and assess the discussion from before we joined you through this instrument, we would emphasize that there are many entities awaiting the opportunity to connect with you in a more direct way. Many of these entities have interacted with you in more subtle ways, whether through the dreaming, through the day-dreaming, through the subtle inspiration, through the whispers and hints given to you through your intuition. It is through this portal that any energies and entities and intelligences from outside of your discrete, illusory boundary may present themselves to you. And this process of channeling, as you call it, is simply that of tuning in to that portal that is ever present within you and is always open to various influences, though typically is more limited to those influences from your own unconscious beingness.

Before we attempt to aid this instrument in introducing a particular contact with him, we would offer a brief opportunity for those present to ask any questions about the process or procedure, if they may be upon your minds. We are Laitos.

Laitos, thanks for visiting this group today. It is well to hear from you. One question, or at least one for now. What is your role in facilitating our next step in the journey? Why are you here with us today?

We are Laitos and are aware of the query and appreciate the opportunity to speak upon our own service and beingness. We are those of the fourth density with a very explicit mission to aid those upon your planet and other planets in bridging the gap of consciousness between your third-density selves and those of higher densities. This is a service that we are quite well acquainted with and have practiced much on our own journeys.

We have an ability, you may say, to present a very broad and easily accessible and acceptable energy and vibration that is easier in most cases for instruments to tune into and to receive. This is a unique type of service in that the type of information or inspiration that can come through such a contact is quite general and cannot be as specific or as intricate as perhaps those of Q’uo or other entities and social memory complexes within the Confederation of Planets in Service to the One Infinite Creator may be able to offer with you in this service. And so, it is our duty and our honor and great joy to act as an intermediary, you may say, for those seeking new experiences in connecting to higher density sources, to help facilitate these types of connections, and to allow instruments such as yourself to practice in receiving and translating simpler, more direct types of thoughts and concepts.

Does this adequately address your question, my brother?

It does. Thank you for lending your support to our processes, Laitos, and liaising to one degree or another.

I am Laitos, and we thank you, our brother. We would express within this instrument a distinct difference in his experience of channeling our energy from that which he is accustomed to with those of Q’uo. And we would encourage him and the other instruments to be very open to different types of sensations and ways in which the concepts are received by the mind. He is more accustomed to, as it has been described, receiving balls of concepts; whereas his experience currently is one which is much more of a flow of concepts that does not all arrive at once, but rather is more like a gentle stream. This is indicative of our type of contact.

There are many other ways in which such concepts can be received and how you will experience them. Even instrument-to-instrument, channeling the same entity may have quite different experiences in how they interface with that entity. And so, we encourage all present to be as open and accepting and surrendered as possible to new types of reception and resonance with words and concepts that may arrive to you from another source.

At this time, we would help this instrument in establishing contact with an entity, a social memory complex, that has been present in this instrument’s life for some time, offering support in the form of inspiration and love and light. This will be a somewhat gentle and slow process for the moment.

And as we allow this instrument to sink deeper into that state of receptivity, we would offer some guidance in receiving what has been so important to you as a peoples, that being the name. The easiest way, you may say, to receive a new word or name or label for such an entity is to attempt to grasp one syllable at a time, attempt to sense the number of syllables attempting to be communicated, and through a series of repetitions, discover the individual syllables, and then put them together as the name of the contact attempting to reach to you.

At this time, we allow this instrument to open to such a contact and invite the new voice to join this circle.

[pause]

I am Laitos. We speak again through this instrument to aid him in receiving the name and energy of this new contact. As we sense resistance to the name received, we would offer a thought to this instrument and to this group that the naming can serve many purposes but is ultimately unimportant to the heart of this contact. One of the purposes of the naming within a context such as this, in particular, is that the name will likely be quite odd and foreign and other, perhaps seeming to you even silly. And this is for a reason. That it allows an establishment within the mind of the instrument the seed idea that what is being channeled, what is being brought through, is distinctly other-than the so-called typical human experience and human intelligence.

The silliness or oddness of the naming plays a role in disrupting the typical trail of human thought that is generally crystallized within the mind of instruments such as yourself to help break apart that crystallization, throw it away, and allow something new to take hold; even if it is initially silly, as you may see it.

And to this end, we can confirm to this instrument that the name received through several iterations of “Tovo” is what has been intended for him to receive.

We pause again to allow this instrument to deepen into a state of receptivity and encourage this instrument and those others present to pay close attention to these sensations within the body that might signal a unique presence that is distinct from your previous experiences in channeling.

[pause]

We are those named through this instrument as those of Tovo. We cannot express the joy of being invited and allowed to share with this circle, who we have been with you for quite some time on the sidelines, you may say, as your unseen cheerleaders. We have done our best to offer our love and support and stabilizing energy to this group as you attempt to refine and practice your practice of channeling.

We will speak this instrument’s sensations to allow him to become familiar with our energy and how we are being received by his mind/body/spirit complex. Our initial contact with him included a sensation of a drop in temperature around his body, but along with this, a deep sensation of calm that he experienced over his entire body. After this contact was established, and he accepted our words as we send them, the cooler temperature was alleviated, and a warmth began to spread over his body that resulted in a feeling of melting and softness. This transitional experience is one that we offer to aid in the instrument’s ability to become receptive to our words. Similar types of experiences can be offered to the other instruments present in any unique way that would benefit the contact.

We join this group out of a strong desire to help guide and be aided by your desire to serve this planet at a time when it is in desperate need of such service. For us to be able to join you in offering the love in the light of the One Creator in the form of spiritual inspiration and insight is not just an honor for us, but is the purpose of our own beingness at this time.

We would cease to speak more about our beingness and our intentions, and instead, to allow this instrument more particular practice, ask if there are simple queries to which we may respond at this time. We are those of Tovo.

Hello, Tovo. Thank you for gracing us with your presence and working through this instrument to share your wisdom with this group and this planet. I perhaps would start with questions of a biographical nature. For instance, Tovo, where along your cyclical spiritual journey do you find yourselves? Of what density do you inhabit? Perhaps we will start there. Thank you.

We are Tovo, and we thank you, our sister. We are new, in relative terms, to the fifth density, as you would count it, having experienced in what would be our recent past a joyful graduation from the fourth density.

Having refined our understanding of love, seeking towards the light, we now stand at the base of a tall and glorious mountain, atop which lives wisdom and light crystallized. And we are very eager to begin our journeys and climb this mountain. The trails that we take include service to others, such as we offer now. Each opportunity offered by groups such as this to join you within the deep illusion of third density, where catalyst and experience is so intense, and the calling of sorrow profound and loud, is another step upon this journey, for through answering this call, we become more and more intimately familiar with the nature of the Creator and Its many expressions throughout the densities. And in this, we become more and more familiar with our own natures, and what it means for us to seek the light, to attempt to crystallize the Creator’s wisdom within us. Is there a further query, my sister?

Yes, thank you, Tovo. I’m unsure if this is a question that you can answer, but perhaps I will ask regardless. And that is in your experience as Tovo, has contact been made in the past with groups similar to this—those in seeking of service and enlightenment? Have those of Tovo made contact in such gatherings or circles?

We are those of Tovo and have received this query, my sister. Indeed, we have been able to, with great honor, join groups such as this in various ways. Though you may not be familiar or even have an understanding of the ways in which other groups can connect with entities such as we; the, what you call, experience as vocal channeling is one expression of our ability to interact with you as creatures of the third density.

And even then, the type of vocal channeling performed by this group is again specific in its protocols and expressions, the way that it looks and feels, having been established by a lineage of channelers who have perfected a unique expression of this craft. It is one that we are eager to experience ourselves, for in that context, this is a new contact for us. However, we have for much of your third density offered ourselves and have been able to respond to various callings, particularly in your recent past, that has been compatible with the service that we offer.

We would ask if there is one more question for our contact with this instrument at this time.

Yes. Thank you, Tovo. A final question would be, is there anything that we as a group can do to further foster contact with you going forward, be it group-wide or this particular instrument who has established contact with you?

We are those of Tovo and appreciate the query, our sister. To simply become known as a presence and to have the name “Tovo” spoken and vibrated within your realm is such a service to our beingness that we hesitate to offer even further suggestion at this time, accepting the simple suggestion that those present, if feeling in resonant with our energy and our message, meditate upon the vibration of Tovo and upon the experience of this interaction; not in a sense to call us to you, for we understand the protocols of your group that ensure the safety and tuning of such a contact as this, but rather simply becoming familiar with this new experience and allowing it to sink deeper into your being if it feels proper in doing so, [as] the pathways through which we move in order to express ourselves in groups such as this become more solid and traversable for us.

For that familiarity will bring resonance of our oneness with you, for as you know, we are the same as you. We are both the One Infinite Creator wearing certain masks and costumes in order to have an experience that brings meaning and joy to the Creator.

For the purposes of this particular meeting, we would step back from this instrument and allow those of Laitos to again speak through him, so that they may establish themselves within this group before being transferred to another instrument. We thank those within this circle from the depths of our being for this opportunity, and we express our great admiration for the openness and the willingness to seek something novel and something new to bring into your troubled realm so that the love and light of the One Infinite Creator can become more apparent and offer Its peace and healing to your troubled world.

We are those of Tovo, and we leave this instrument.

[pause]

I am Laitos and am again with this instrument. We offer our gratitude and praise to this instrument, and to the one known as Trisha for easing the experience of those of Tovo into this circle. There is a certain release of potential in making this connection that will have resounding effects for this instrument and for this circle in the availability of inspiration and love and light sent to you by those of Tovo and others of similar vibration. You may, in your meditations, open up to this inspiration and resonance, to experience the power contained in the release of this potential.

Before we transfer our contact, we would offer one further suggestion, as we are aware that there has been some question within the minds of those within this circle of how best to connect to new sources. As our friends of those of Q’uo have shared , there are unique contacts, so to speak, for each present. You can, if it feels right, and if you wish, as you attempt to find a new contact and receive that contact, open yourself to these new individual sources. But if you do not find success in this, those of Tovo are ready and willing and capable of connecting and being channeled through each present. And so, you have options, we may say, of how to proceed.

And at this time, we would take leave of this instrument and transfer this contact to the one known as Gary, so that we may attempt to help him connect with a new source of inspiration. We are Laitos.

(Gary channeling)

We offer our hello once again to this circle as we are those known to you as Laitos. As before, we give articulation to the sensations of this instrument, who is feeling a lightness about this contact, perhaps something of an ease and a desire to lean into it, as you say, to explore the experience of this contact in this act of vocal channeling. We would, through this instrument, offer our gratitude and praise for the instrument who preceded this one, and the exercise of his openness and trust to that which greeted him in the love and in the light of the One Creator. The willingness to be open to new experiences, to move beyond, in faith and in trust, the barrier of hesitation, discomfort, and self-doubt.

And we would offer very much the same to she who made the first step forward into the unknown among your group, being a way-shower of your group’s desire for a greater variety of experiences in the channeling arts, thus cracking open a door to new possibilities and new perspectives.1

We would remind you, our brothers and sisters, that we of the Confederation may have various specialties and notes to sing in the choir, but our melody is ever and always the same, and that is in the offering of glory to the One Infinite Creator. It is in the seeking and being of oneness with all things. It is to remind you, our friends, currently within a great dream, of the eternal, unchanging nature of that one truth of oneness, and the love and the light and the joy within that oneness.

But there are many paths and many configurations of mind, body, and spirit, and as many perspectives, as many desires and needs. And we are happy to try, among our own specialists, to meet those needs and speak to those unique perspectives as best as possible.

As those known to you as Laitos, we would ask if there is a brief question to which we may respond before potentially attempting to facilitate a new connection for this instrument. We are Laitos.

Yeah, I think I have a question that might help the next two instruments. I felt conditioning similar to how experienced conditioning when I first started channeling with this connection. And I know that that conditioning has not been typical of our experience channeling lately. I know that Gary has mentioned not feeling much in the way of sensations, in terms of conditioning. So I would like to ask, for somebody like that, what is a good way to try to sense the conditioning? Or if there’s a different type of conditioning that can be offered and attempted to be listened for through an instrument that typically has trouble sensing those kinds of things?

As Laitos, we appreciate this question, as it very much does apply to this instrument who has asked this question himself and asked this question of us for a stronger conditioning signal, for something which would be more palpable and sensed and louder, if you will, within his being. And we have offered such, but such is the present configuration that the conscious mind does not register this so clearly always. There are something of walls to which this entity is attached that do not necessarily block such signals, but place them outside the range of what the ears may clearly discern, shall we say.

And in terms of that which may be perceived more clearly by this instrument, we would commend the practice of bringing the attention more deeply into the body and into the subtle energy fields. For this instrument exists, though open to others and to experience and to ideas, in something of a hard energetic shell at times, that is not sensitized to the deeper, subtle layers of experience.

And we would remind all instruments and spiritual seekers that there are rivers of subtle energy in, shall we say, stratified layers the deeper one penetrates into their being, subtler and subtler still that, in order to access and experience, requires a stillness of mind, a moving out of the head, as you may see it, a receptivity and an ability to take that concentration, not through force, but through careful intention and direction, and sink further into the being, as it were; activating one’s inner sensory organs and sensing for what is arising, sensing for what is there, allowing the surface levels to be as they are.

But as those surface levels are bridged to the deeper levels within the self, there is a sensitizing of the being itself and a greater unity of resonance within the being as the hard walls become more permeable to the light.

It is not a detriment to not feel the conditioning signal strongly or at all, but it is a great source of support and affirmation or assurance, we should say, to perceive the conditioning signal. The portal through which our and other Confederation members transmission moves is that which is opened by faith within the self, which may be synonymous with trust and willingness to leap, even though that conditioning signal may not be present in the conscious experience of the entity.

Though this entity does not feel necessarily that there is any particular source waiting to work through this entity, we shall take a moment to move into and open that space, and to see what may transpire, if you will give us a moment please. We are those of Laitos.

[pause]

Greetings, our friends. We, though having gone through several iterations with this instrument, and though he remains uncertain if this is the… or rather, that he has picked this up clearly, we would introduce ourselves as those known to you as Halos,2 and open our arms to welcome you, our friends, upon the path which we walk alongside you, having borne witness to your activities in this world, having been with your planet for its tumultuous and not-undramatic journey through the third density.

We hope to share with you that which may, through inspiration, offer you the wings that you too may join your many friends across the cosmos in their flight toward the Logos and toward the One.

We, as the potentially real social memory complex known as Halos, would ask you, our friends, if there is something to which we may respond.3

Yes, Halos; potentially Halos, thank you. A simple question, similar to the last one. Could you give us a snapshot of where you are on your spiritual journey, what density you were in, and also bit of like a backstory of your journey up to this point?

Our journey begins on a cold and stormy night, many millions of your years ago.

Our journey is, as is the case for all beings within the universe, [one where] we have walked a great distance, illusory though it may be, and experienced much catalyst that helps us to learn of our purpose and our beingness.

We are those of a density which is registering in this instrument’s mind as the upper fourth and the mid-fifth—which clearly cannot be possible to exist simultaneously in two. But the love energy which we are transmitting and its lightness is indicative of the fourth density. And we appreciate this instrument’s willingness to speak potential nonsense and to be less bounded by the strictures which demand that a certain logic be met.

We are those who seek to bring cool waters to those fires that burn. We convey to this instrument a feminine energy that offers a light touch to the hard or hardened entity, that brings coolness and ease.

We are unsure if we have satisfied the question which you have asked and would ask if there is another or more to which we may respond.

Yeah. That was adequate. I guess one more question would be, some Confederation entities seem to have specific tasks or specialties, you could say, such as Laitos and their specialty of helping to train vocal channels. Do you have any specialties or certain niches within the Confederation and in your service to our planet?

We thank you, the known as Austin, and offer that among our specialties and strengths is that of the healing of war, the mending of hearts, the constant attempt to beam mercy to those caught in cycles of retribution and bellicosity. To try, as we have said, to offer cool waters to douse or extinguish the flames which consume and burn upon your world, which manifest in an outward sense upon your planet, but which are fundamentally those which burn within your hearts and within your collective.

We offer ourselves as channels, as collaborators or sources of information, to those who would receive our frequency, those particularly intent upon fostering a world of peace and moving through your planet’s transition to a world of love and understanding, to lend our service to help that new world be born. And we are not specialists in the training of channels, per se. But for those who would receive us, we offer our service as a fourth-density group4 who is by your side to help your planetary population through its transition.

This instrument is offering us a signal that the time is advancing and accumulating. And we would transfer from our station directly to the one known as Trisha, that she may move forward on her channeling journey and explore what it is that her heart wishes to explore, in harmony and in unity with the purpose of your group.

We, as Halos, see you, our friends. You shine brightly, and we share our light with you as we now transfer the contact to the one known as Trisha.

(Trisha channeling)

I am Laitos, and I am now with this instrument. And it is with great pleasure that we rejoin this circle. We are immensely inspired and sit with much gratitude for the efforts of this group to establish greater contact with dear friends of the Confederation. We would note that the reacquaintance, the reconnection, that we feel with this circle is one of ease as experienced through this instrument. That the energetic signature is one that is familiar and perhaps smoother to tap into.

And we would again vocalize that this is part of our service to aid these instruments, these fellow selves, into this practice. That we extend this hand outward, gently, in hopes of being of service and walking along that path to deeper and greater connection.

And so, we would now give this instrument the opportunity to connect with a voice outside of ourselves. And we would invite her to take this moment to go deeper, to open the heart, and to invite that which desires to speak. We are those of Laitos.

[pause]

We are Biondha, and it is with great pleasure and many blessings that we greet this circle yet again through this instrument. We feel it is an immense honor to stand alongside you, and those of Tovo, and those of Halos, and those of Laitos, in this current configuration. We see great beauty and great potential. We have witnessed much support, much care, and we feel so moved to be a part of this.

Indeed, we have been witnessing this circle, this gathering of light seekers, for quite some of your time, as you see it. We have stood alongside you. We have sent our love and light to you. And we have danced with joy to see and to witness and to experience the purity of the seeking of groups such as this group.

We would allow this instrument a few brief moments to deepen this contact and invite her to release the judgment and the concern. Invite her to allow us to speak more freely through her. To slowly, gently wade into the waters of this stream of consciousness, this energetic river.

[pause]

And feeling as though we have moved more deeply in this current with her, we would ask if there is a query to which we may speak. We are Biondha.

Yes, Biondha. Welcome. During your previous visit , it caused some questioning in the instrument; wondering, subsequently, was this a product of my imagination or was this something objectively real.

With conscious channeling, or with channeling [generally], we can never be certain, of course. That’s the great strength/weakness of channeling. But I’m wondering if you would have any counsel for the self-doubt that the instrument feels around this new contact.

We are Biondha, and we graciously accept and understand this query, my brother. The trepidation and doubt this particular instrument experienced in establishing a connection with us is part of her own lesson in this incarnation of understanding and accepting herself more fully, of allowing herself more grace.

And we would speak to the validity of the connection by simply stating that it is a valid and tangible experience for this instrument. And so, we would invite her to welcome it, welcome this contact, and welcome us, within her ability and comfort, and through the protocols you have established, knowing that, with more practiced tuning to our energies, we will become more familiar and comfortable to her.

We would also like to speak to the experience that perhaps each in this circle are facing, and that is the one of a newness, if you will. That perhaps there is trepidation or a desire to be careful in this walk forward into a space previously unexplored by the three here. And we would say that we appreciate the careful stepping that each have attempted; and we appreciate the discerning welcome, the bravery, and the humility. We would simply state that those in this circle, as you move forward in whatever you decide to do with these new contacts, invite you to continue with faith that these contacts are within you, and that you are free to reinvite us at further sessions. That we are always ready and ever interested in answering your call, per your comfort, as always.

We would like to take another moment for this instrument to move more deeply into our particular signature.

[pause]

We are Biondha, and we would put words to the experience of this instrument in this contact, that the conditioning is one of a seeming electrical movement. That there is a weightlessness that the instrument is attempting to tap into. And her own discernment, or attempts to be discerning, can sometimes make the tapping into the conditioning and our energy [feel] a bit rocky, if you would. She likens it to attempting to jump onto a moving horse. And so, we would again request that this instrument take a few moments to slowly ease back into our stream.

[pause]

We are Biondha, and we would ask if there is a final query that we may speak to through this instrument.

Yes. It’s hard to go last in this circle, so I want to give props to Trisha, the instrument. And also wanted to say that there’s time to play with if she’s interested in continuing, but I understand if the energy wanes. And for questions, I guess, just first date questions. So Biondha, if you could tell us something about your purpose, where are you from, and maybe something of your background and history.

We are Biondha, and it is with great joy that we receive this query, my brother. We feel a great honor in being invited to share a bit of our particular soul stream and history, as well as our mission. Like many Confederation friends, our ultimate goal is in service to the One Infinite Creator. We wish to be of aid to those within this universe. We are giving this instrument the impression that we are of a mid-fourth-density cycle at this time. That we are striving in this experience to teach/learn lessons of love that extend beyond the non-boundaried confines of densities. That we feel a calling to assist those on this planet in particular, to find and re-establish loving relationships with beings, not only within the third density, but below and beyond.

We see ourselves as aid workers towards healing the relationship between the third-density being and the planet upon which you now reside. We see ourselves as bridges for communication between the third-density being and those of second. And that we wish to be light bringers so that a more conscious and inspired connection with your various logos can be established and remembered.

We are Biondha, and as we scan this instrument, we find her to be a bit unsure of her continued abilities to speak our message at this time. And so, it is with a deep well of gratitude that we take our leave of this instrument and invite the one known as Laitos to speak through her prior to releasing contact with this instrument as a whole.

And so, we shall say adieu. We are those of Biondha.

[pause]

We are those of Laitos, and we are again with this instrument. We wish to express again our appreciation for the patience and grace of this group, for the opportunity to connect with each. And in your tradition, we shall release ourselves of this instrument that we may say our final farewells through the one known as Austin. We are those of Laitos.

(Austin channeling)

I am Laitos and am again with this instrument. What a joy, my friends, to take part in the establishing of these connections. Though new to your conscious minds and awareness, these connections are indeed not new, for those of Tovo and Halos and Biondha are called to this group due to your own seeking and have been honored to witness and participate in your seeking in the more subtle ways. But to bring their presence into manifest form by way of the spoken word allows them a unique opportunity to intersect with you and your realm in a way that is empowering and energizing for all involved.

As we spoke earlier, there is a certain release of potential upon establishing this connection within your space/time environment. And we would give a forecast to those present in this circle that this energy will be present in your lives and resonate for some time upon the closure of this contact. And we would encourage each to allow this resonance to fill their being and allow it to bring you each in closer resonance with that which you desire, which is to be of service to others by sharing the words, thoughts, and inspirations of we of the Confederation of Planets in Service to the One Infinite Creator.

With gratitude, joy, and a light heart, we leave this circle in the love and In the light of the One Infinite Creator, Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.

We held a private session the week prior (our first and so far only such exercise) in order to ask personal questions. During the session, we asked Q’uo, while Trisha was channeling, if there were other Confederation members who wished to speak through our group in alignment with our mission and the principles of love, light, unity, and joy. In response, Biondha identified themselves, but the instrument, taken by surprise, wasn’t ready to continue further. Thus, when we met a week later, and after considerable discussion, we decided to open the door to new possibilities. ↩

Gary: This came to me pronounced as “Hay-los”, with the emphasis on the first syllable. It was only after the channeling that I realized that it is also the plural of “halo.” But the pronunciation of the second syllable of the contact, “los,” was an “ohce” sound, like “dose” or “Carlos”; versus the pronunciation of the conventional word “halos” where the second syllable is pronounced the same as “rose” or “cheerios.” ↩

Gary: I seem to recall a little tongue-in-cheek to this moment. But either way, I cannot vouch for the ontological reality of this contact. Maybe it is an expression of the (modicum of) creativity present in this instrument. We shall see. Have salt on hand at the ready. ↩

Gary: Apparently fourth? lol ↩

