Topics: Biondha’s specialty in forming bridges of communication between third and second density; Biondha’s experience; Halos’s specialty in healing bellicosity; Halos’s experience; the thought-form of war; negative manipulation of the war thought-form; dehumanization as an aspect of bellicosity.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Biondha, and it is with great joy that we greet this circle. Much like our friends in the Confederation, we come today with much excitement and much gratitude for the invitation to speak on our experiences, to share what knowledge we have, and to connect with you, our brothers and sisters of the third density.

As always, we appreciate the simple opportunity to share space in this way, and we are eager to answer your call; and in so doing, we will ask our usual request that the information that comes through these instruments, if it be not resonant with those who read the words, [that they] allow it to go by the wayside and continue on in their journey of seeking, knowing that what serves them best will make itself known in its own way.

With that favor granted, we will be more available to speak more clearly through these instruments, and we know for this particular circle that is a favor easily granted, though we feel it is important to begin any of our sessions with you with that request. And on this beautiful day in your particular location on this planet, we excitedly and with much appreciation join you and sit with you, be it energetically, to share in this experience of contemplation and exchange.

We would ask with our deepest sense of gratitude if there is a query to which we may speak at this time? We are Biondha.

Yes, Biondha, thank you for being here with us. In a previous session you said, “We see ourselves as bridges for communication between the third-density being and those of second.” Can you talk more about how you hope to form these bridges of communication? How will serving as a channel for us serve that intention?

We are those of Biondha, and we appreciate this query, my brother. Indeed, we do see ourselves as an avenue, or a friend, if you will, to connect with in hopes of sharing our experiences and our knowledge in terms of how you can, or those on this planet can, explore their own relationships with those of the second density, and with the planet itself.

In that desire, we feel as though there are many avenues one can explore to strengthen that relationship, to foster that dynamic, and we are one of many of your friends of the Confederation that can be of support to you in this particular quest. For we see how the veil is so heavy in your experience that it is challenging to see anything outside of the egoic, identifiable, separate self as something that is within self, as something that is part of self. We understand that the configuration of your body complexes strengthens that sense of separation, that the way you communicate and interact with entities and souls outside of your own can [reinforce] that illusion; and if that experience is utilized differently, can be an avenue for exploring the dissolving of the separation, the means of seeing all the connection that is held within the illusion.

We are those who have, through our experience, been able to establish deeper connections with entities outside of our own density by means of practice and contemplation, by means of inner seeking and outer seeking. Ultimately, the most potent vehicle for the strengthening of these relationships is the practice of opening the heart to those entities who wish to establish deeper relationships; and to be of service to those entities outside of one’s own density, one can also find similar means of connection through the intentional practice of opening the heart.

Opening the heart may seem to be a vague phrase or idea, and those on your planet may have a sense of what that can look like, and we would say that indeed, there are many ways to undergo this practice, many steps or options one can experiment with to find ways to open the heart.

The first we would suggest is perhaps one that this particular group of seekers already understands the importance of and that is the practice of meditation: to be able to take the day’s happenings, to release them, to let go of the tendrils of experience that ground you to your identity, and to find that temple of silence within, to rest and bask in that blissful unity of the sacred space. And in that sacred space, finding deeper and deeper ways to visualize, to manifest, to experience what it means to have an open heart; to study that which comes up outside of that finding to see what can be of use to you, practically, when you are in your waking, grounded hours, with that practice being undertaken with true intentions. Then the growth, the widening of the open heart, can occur.

And when those learnings are taken out into your daily experience, opportunities will arise. Catalyst will appear for you to strengthen that muscle, for you to find ways to open the arms wider, to listen more clearly, for you to see other-self and the illusion more fully. It is as if each moment spent in this practice of intentional heart opening allows the self to see more color, to hear more music, to experience more of the sensory world. We say that as a metaphor for what is the reality, and that is the deeper understanding of self as Creator, the walking away from the binds which tell you that you are other than the Creator. And in those opportunities in which this is practiced, in those lessons that fall at your feet, one may find a stronger desire to embody that open-hearted, unconditional love element that is inherent within the self.

We recognize that your interactions with your fellow third-density entities is likely of more, how you may say, obvious in terms of its potential. We understand that many on your planet are interfacing with other-selves at a certain constant rate, that those lessons seem to only mirror that understanding of self in regards to a third density other-self, and to a degree that is true. You have chosen to be upon this planet at this time, to be a vehicle for the Creator to know Itself. And the greatest lesson outside of the self is the interactions with the other-self.

When two other-selves of the same density are interfacing, you can imagine that the potential for growth is quite large. And so in terms of one way an entity may experience that same catalytic opportunity is to take the learnings that one has found in your interactions with other-self and utilize them intentionally in the way you communicate with your second-density other-self. Imagine putting your third-density self in communion in some way with a second-density other-self and embodying that which you may see as a highlight of your third-density communication. And not only that, to gaze upon your second-density self with much respect, with much compassion, and with much hope that the second-density self is much larger than their second-density self. Erase that identity of the label of second density. See them as an other-self with much more potential. See them as your brothers and sisters upon the path, allowing yourself to remove the limits that many upon your planet place upon your second-density friends.

You may then see, as we mentioned before, the many more colors to the experience. You may be able to feel the energetic resonance between you two, may more deeply understand the love between you two, having the respect and the humility to see each other as equals on this journey. You may then empower this second-density other-self with the ability of self awareness, with the growth and experience this other-self may need to further themselves on their journey, so that you may meet at a more common ground in your future, illusory separate selves.

We would add that, noting that your journey is inherently shared, that there is no ability to separate yourself from these other-selves, no matter their density, for they are all, you included, an aspect of the Creator. You may then form a clearer sense of compassion. You may then be able to stand in their perspective, to view the world through their eyes, and come to a deeper understanding of how your shared journey may look more peaceful moving forward, may be of more mutual benefit—not only to you and your second-density friend, but to the planet and the universe as a whole.

Ultimately, the movement of the open heart, empowered by unconditional love, will inform the seeker desiring to establish deeper and more healing connections with those of their second-density friends the ability to establish a more authentic sense of respect, a reverence and an appreciation for what this second-density other-self provides, to see them in their full glory, to witness their unique gifts, and to come to terms with what a blessing each fragment of this Creator truly is.

And with deeper understanding, with authentic and genuine respect, you may find yourselves more harmoniously intertwined, one being able to sense more clearly what that is that moves that other entity, and perhaps vice versa. You may see that your connection not only grows deeper, but becomes more innate to your inner being, that you begin to sense each other in more instantaneous ways, more below-the-surface ways, more energetic ways. With more open eyes and more open heart, you can begin to see the immense potential in this dynamic, and find again that respect, honoring them as inherently beautiful and intentional and individual parts of this larger mosaic, this beautiful collection of experiences and identities that inform and teach the whole.

And as you walk on this shared journey together, you are healing. You are healing yourself. You are healing your other-self. You are healing the planet, and you are healing the universe. This happens in ways seen and unseen.

Perhaps you inspire a fellow third-density self to be more present, or be more respectful, or to be more loving to another third-density self, to a second-density self, to Mother Gaia, to situations. Perhaps you teach your second-density friend how to be more accepting of love.

You see, the potential, the opportunities are boundless. The possible outcomes are infinite. And ultimately, they are all beautiful, for no matter which way you step on this journey, all will be well. We simply share this knowledge and experience that we have on our journey. For those who feel resonance to that desire, think upon your second-density friends in an experience of wonder, [as those] who are beginning to learn the lessons of self-awareness.

See the world through their eyes, how vast, how exciting, how scary; and see the way that they show up in unconditional love and service to one another, to the planet—and perhaps you, too, may feel inspired to take the cloak, the cane, and to be an additional shepherd of that unconditional love, to be a way-shower, and to help inspire those around you to be more present in their own experience; to witness the planet in its full glory, the universe as well, and to see the beauty of the illusion and the love that created it all.

That is the true gift of your shared dynamic, among many other relationships you will have in your varied incarnations. For they are all opportunities to learn the lesson of love.

We [who] are those of Biondha love feeling as though we have come to a point where we are testing this instrument further. We would ask if there is a follow-up to this question, or more we may speak to on a similar topic?

Yeah. Thank you very much for that very beautiful perspective and how to relate to our second density. In that response, there were a couple of times where you referenced that you are sharing this from your own experience, and you hope to pull upon your own experience to provide this service. And I was wondering if you could speak some about that experience in the hopes that learning of your experience might reveal new ways of being and relating for us?

We are those of Biondha, and we appreciate this query, my brother. We shall attempt to move more deeply through this instrument, allowing her space to connect and release the insecurity she feels.

Having felt a more established connection at this time, we would state that we may share a little bit about our own journey and how we came to this knowledge, but hope that it does not become too much of a story, you may say; for this knowledge, these experiences, are shared by all in this creation. We simply find different ways to tap it and unlock that group knowledge. We are of a soul stream which has had many rounds of experience, through incarnations, throughout the densities in which we were gifted, many opportunities to learn respect and love. We have had many lifetimes on many planets, witnessing the…

[pause]

We are Biondha, and again we would remind this instrument to take a breath, for this instrument feels a bit uncomfortable speaking our words at times.

We have had many incarnations and lifetimes witnessing pain between entities, the utilizing and weaponizing of densities against one another, though it was not clear in those experiences that there was a density difference, just a sense of witnessing intelligence and seeing certain other-selves as less-than due to their intellectual ability, due to their physical ability.

And we have had many lifetimes also experiencing the wonder and beauty of connection, of moments wherein realization occurs that all is connected, and that these labels we affix to ourselves are simply there to help inform us of an illusion that is more grand and more connected and fluid than words can begin to describe.

There have been many generations of our soul stream that has gone through healing, and it is through that healing, through the witnessing of pain, through our own journey of fumbles and foibles, to our own self-forgiveness and acceptance, and through the experience of acceptance and love and understanding for others-selves that we come into this knowledge.

Now we do not call it knowledge to give it a heightened sense of importance. There are many more avenues for exploration to heal the dynamic between you and your other-selves, many more of our friends of the Confederation who could share on this matter. We are but one of many, many who, from afar and within, support you.

The book, if you will, of knowledge is infinite, so many pages, some unturned, filled with this kind of information. We are but one page in that book, and each day of your experience is yet another day and another page in that book.

Again, we stress that our knowledge that we share with you is not of supreme importance. We share as your fellow self. We share as your fellow journeyman, as your friend along the path, and not from some exalted perspective or position. It is simply our experience, and one that we hold very dear for the opportunities they provided us, and we feel that our service is merely to share those and if they resonate for them to be of help to you.

This instrument is struggling to speak more deeply the information that we are imparting upon her due to a sense of insecurity. We recognize a sense of not wanting to put too much weight on specific details, to not get lost in the plot, merely to be of assistance, to share the more universal perspective that we have, and so respecting that feeling within this instrument, we would ask if there is another query to which we may speak?

Yeah, thank you. Are there any other ways in your current service that you hope to achieve your goal of helping to build these bridges? For instance, do you do any other work besides offering yourself as a channel, or do you work directly with second-density beings on earth at all?

We are Biondha, and we appreciate this query, my brother. We feel as though our work is not—we correct this instrument—we feel as though the service we desire to provide is not one that is merely by means of your channeling efforts. We feel as though we attempt to make connections with other-selves in many other ways, outside of the channeled experience. We feel deep connections with entities of other densities, of other experiences, of other perspectives. But to put that into words which would help to describe what that looks like is challenging. We are attempting to utilize this instrument to communicate those means, and finding that she is struggling

Ultimately, being that there is but one being, that being the Creator, it is expected that our experience and connection here is merely a reflection of many other experiences and connections, and that our service with you today is a service to those outside of you today. And that our ability to be of service to the One Infinite Creator knows no bounds. That, in the larger perspective, there is no Biondha. There is no circle here. There are no second-density friends. But instead, there is this dance of energy that is constantly informing itself, that is constantly serving itself in loving and tending and compassionate ways.

And in that way we are in communication with many entities, not just those in the circle today, and not just those of the third-density orientation, for the Creator moves through each and every one of us. With each passing of your moment, with each movement, we are but a collection of notes in the great symphony of creation we all play together to create harmony and dissonance. And we are doing so in a co-creative manner.

Feeling as though this instrument is losing her ability to focus over time, we will take our leave of her and allow the instrument known as Gary to receive content from one of our friends of the Confederation. We thank you again for this opportunity. We are Biondha.

(Gary channeling)

We are those known to you as Halos, and it is with gratitude that we thank our friends of Biondha and the instrument for receiving their message that they may have the opportunity to speak their particular slant in the seeking and the serving of the One Creator. And we would enter this circle through vocal transmission, in order to do the same, to speak to that same essential message with a slightly different flavor due to the uniqueness of our own journey. Not, we would clarify, especially unique, but unique in the way that all individual and collective journeys of the Creator to the Creator are.

We pause so this instrument may work out that which your peoples call a “charlie horse.”

We find an instrument who is striving to offer himself to us to his fullest capacity, having invited and encouraged use of his beingness for this service. We also find an instrument navigating some fatigue as well. We will offer our best as these instruments are further trained, and as we learn to interact together.

We are Halos, and would ask if there is a query to which we may respond?

Thank you so much, Halos, for being here and for offering your service to us. In a previous session you said: “Among our specialties and strengths is that of the healing of war. The mending of hearts, the constant attempt to beam mercy to those caught in cycles of retribution and bellicosity.”1 Thank you for offering yourself to our planet at this particular time.

The perception of many is that of what you called the flames which consume and burn upon our world are burning quite hot lately. Can you please explain a bit more about how you hope to serve towards this end in offering yourself as a channel, and how can the service of channeling and channeled information serve towards this goal of helping to offer cool waters to douse or extinguish these flames?

We are those of Halos and thank you. We find a template of channeling established within this instrument which we make use of, and we would speak first to the latter portion of your query regarding our hopes for the channeling service. We do not expect that these words will be broadcast to or heard by the vast majority of your world. We do not expect that a transcript, as you make it, of our channeling will drop into the laps of warring factions and create for them an epiphany that leads the warring parties from bellicosity to peace.

In channeling, we have the same basic hope that our companions within our Confederation have, and that is that we may inspire those consciously upon the path of spiritual seeking to continue their journeys with an inspiration, perhaps towards the release of the fight and the seeking of peace within, and peace among peoples.

As to the former portion of what we believe was your query, there is the service outside of the formal, vocal channeling, which we magnetize ourselves to upon your world, and that is the ministering to the souls of your world with a broad mission to be envoys of peace, to help promote community and well-being, to help invite those who wish to leave behind the torments of violence that they may walk into the light without harm, that is, without intention to harm other beings your world. We are champions of compassion, you may say.

Is there another query?

Yeah, a quick follow-up on that topic. Is there something on your own journey that has caused you to arrive at this particular focus, referencing the bellicosity and the war? Is there something that you experienced that has created this intention within you?

Like many of those who have traversed the difficult walk of the third-density experience of consciousness, we have known warfare on various levels within our own past. We have shed the tears and suffered the sorrows of the great tragedies that fighting among family, among planetary fellow brings to a world and to the heart. We have brought ourselves to the brink in our past. [But] we emphasize that our journey is not yours upon this planet. And our circumstances, though, on one hand, in common with all of third density, were also uniquely our own. And we would not elevate or showcase our experience as being a model. We speak only in order to clarify that which helped to forge our own relationship to this phenomenon of bellicosity and our commitment to a way of peaceful being.

We were able to, shall we say, find alternative means, which were much less destructive, to settle our disputes, until we could leave behind the worst of this experience that it might live on in the shadows of the past as dark episodes, which helped to inform us of our fuller, whole nature of the extremes to which a being is capable of going when the heart closes by degrees or fully; [and how] the choices that can be made in such darkness are destructive of the integrity of the soul, leading to violence toward other-selves and the self in an attitude that de-sanctifies a sacred world.

We would not dwell on this experience, nor would we graft our own onto yours, as we spoke previously, or suggest that your peoples could mimic our ways, as you have a uniquely Terran experience—particularly so thanks to the influx of various third-density populations which share your world at present, and which have different group minds which help contribute to your predicament of bellicosity, your breakdown of communication, and the fragmentation of your world. This helps to set up a condition whereby those more clever in their manipulative beingness can take advantage in order to set person against person using various levers of persuasion, manipulation, influence, compulsion, and control, which are in the open for all to see.

We would ask if there is another query to which we may offer our thoughts?

Yeah, thank you. Speaking to the influences on our planet that contribute to our situation of bellicosity, I was hoping to explore the idea of thought-forms. One of the benefits of channeling, I think, is being able to get a glimpse at the metaphysical dynamics of what’s going on on the surface. And so, from your perception, is there, what you could maybe call a single, massive thought-form present on our planet that is both formed by and also contributes to these cycles of bellicosity in our planetary population? I’ll just leave it at that.

We thank you for this penetrating question into the metaphysical underpinnings of your planetary experience, and would offer that your supposition is not incorrect.

The accumulation of cycles of violence and retribution and warfare upon your world have and do create something of a psychic entity upon the time/space realms. It is, as you surmise, that which is fed by frequencies of hatred and separation and domination. And it is that which is a beacon of such energies for those who, in their own work in consciousness, or lack thereof, become susceptible to tuning themselves to this frequencies that they may be so fed and inspired, and even become an agent or a channel of this war-beingness that exists in your world from a more mythological perspective. One could even assign to this entity an anthropomorphized persona, and call it a God of War. Or one could, from a more psychological perspective, see it as an archetype.

It is a substantial presence, shall we say, in the collective mind, and it is not without agency, but it is also not independent of the collective mind. It is not an entity which has arrived from an external or outer-planes source with a mission to seed and to sow war among your peoples. It is the living shadow of your own world which, as energies are want to do, seeks also its own preservation, and seeks to avoid the light in order that this disharmony may continue, that it may live through the energy fields and behaviors of third-density entities upon your world, and feed, as it were,

We would add an unrelated caveat about channeling, and that is that the inspiration we hope to offer to the seeker is that which we hope empowers the seeker to become a conscious being and to bring the light and the love of conscious awareness into the shadows of their own being as well.

Is there another query to which we may transmit our thoughts?

Yeah a quick one. In the spirit of what you just said, and, you know, hoping to not offer, not explore fear or anything like that, but to better understand the dynamics so that we can offer it our love and light, are there higher-density beings on the negative path that have consciously attempted to contribute or energize this psychic entity as you called it?

We are Halos, and we thank you for the introduction of this word fear, for it is an integral and key aspect of understanding the genesis and existence and purpose of this collective pool, if you will, of that which inspires violence between peoples and organized crimes against one another.

Indeed, this resource, shall we say—or we take a step back and correct this instrument—this beingness serves as an exquisite resource for our negatively oriented friends of the higher densities which are invested in increasing a negative harvest and in steering your world of the third-density Earth away from global harmony and unity, and toward the establishment of the negative variety of hierarchy through the encouragement of factions and dominance, be that on the level of the invading military, the invading and occupying military force, the economic warfare which keeps those of your peoples enslaved, or the attempt to spread a religious philosophy which seeks to convert and demand obedience, and so on and on.

This archetypal energy of warfare, living within the shadows of the collective mind, is that which can be manipulated and stimulated, and which offers a doorway into the immune system of the planet, as you may see in metaphor. It is, at heart, a shifting concentration of energy, and it attracts those stories of past wrongdoings, of past injuries to itself, that animate and energize these stories for any who—having experienced pain or become victim of one variety or another, or who, in general, experience a closing of the heart—may be latched onto, shall we say, by these energies.

These energies can be invasive in a way. Which is not, from our perspective, to suggest that the third-density entity is ultimately not responsible for their vibratory field, or that their deepest, most sacred and sovereign free will may be overridden at whim. It is only to say that, with less conscious development and less metaphysical charge or power within the [third-density] entity, that these energies may invade the thinking, as does the virus which infects the mind with thought-forms and ideology which encourages supremacy of self against other-self in a variety of ways—one of the most insidious being that known to you as the holy war which has the power to energize a great passion for the harming of others in the name of that which is perceived to be sacred.

We are Halos, and would ask if there’s a final query to which we may respond before transferring our contact?

Yeah, one more follow-up on this, what you called the archetypal energy of warfare, or the God of War archetype thought-form that we are dealing with. I imagine that this entity manifests and affects us in ways that are both very obviously violent, such as the manifestation of war, but also in ways that are less obviously violent in our more everyday interactions that may be harder to detect. One example that I think I would cite is just dehumanization and dehumanizing language and attitudes towards groups of people.

Can you explore this idea a little bit and help us identify if this entity does manifest in those ways, and if so, what are some things that we can look out for that this entity might be influencing in this way?

Our brother, we find that you have better words than us, and we appreciate this particular focus and means of exploration, that being the dehumanization. For this attitude is at the base of that which erodes the social fabric, and the bonds of community and family, and the understanding that we, as a group, succeed and fail together; we as a group have a shared journey and shared hardship; and each has a place within that group, each is a being of dignity, and value, and worth.

This attitude, or energy, or perspective of dehumanization is fundamental and essential to the negative mindset. For one can love another being of dignity. One can respect their rights, and their value, and their contribution to the whole. One can invite one who is seen to possess dignity into one’s home, into one’s heart. One may seek to train or to collaborate or to work together on some level, or to seek to be of service to such a one.

But to return to that which we described as fundamental to the negative mindset, when that [dignity] is stripped away from the other-self in the eyes of one, then any manner of mistreatment becomes possible, whether that is the parent who justifies neglect of the child they find to be a problem or unworthy on some level, or the minorities in a nation who are understood to have less intrinsic value than the native borns or whoever makes up the majority, be that majority contingent on religious belief or ethnicity or birthplace and so forth. In your corporate structures, this may be possible in the way in which those who are so employed are exploited. We would not get into, as this instrument would say, the “nitty gritty“ of your systems of commerce and economics, but this may, in general, also be seen in some respects in the manifestation of that which you experience as the wealth inequality and the great gaps in your systems of compensation. We scan this instrument’s mind and find that movie known to you as Elysium which hinges on this fundamental categorization that separates those who have value and those who do not; those who are, in this case, deserving of medical care, and those who do not [deserve] this.

You asked about the role of or relationship to this dark energy within the collective mind, and we would say that metaphysics and the phenomena and experiences of the metaphysical realm are not that which is easy to parse out into space and time terminology that would translate easily to the space/time ears, as the collective mind is a great expanse with a great multitude of energies and thought-forms and experiences and terrain and mazes, if you will, with layers upon layers of historical experience, stories within stories, libraries upon libraries of accumulated information of incarnations lived, and so on and so forth.

And there are various ways that energies may thread through this collective mind—including through ancestral experience, including through soul family experience, including through the personal, individual journey of the self or group, and so forth—that may carry with them certain aspects of this energy within their beingness; and may [even] cultivate this energy in their own hearts, if they unconsciously, or perhaps even consciously, stew and simmer in resentment or hatred or bitterness; and thus participate in, and bring to life a flavor of, some aspect of this dark energy. And thus it may permeate society in various ways. You are astute to note that it cannot simply be characterized as being war alone, though that is the ultimate expression and destination of the path of separation or those energies which are of separation.

And in closing, we would add that yours is a place of mixed polarity, where sits in the great center of your population that sinkhole of indifference. You are a blend in the spectrum of ratios of ever-shifting positive and negative energies—with some portion of your peoples having successfully, consciously made the Choice and developed their metaphysical charge or power in their chosen direction of travel. We highlight this condition to point out that these energies of bellicosity may, shall we say, reach far and wide in your population. These energies may appear in even quite positively oriented souls in some lesser or less extreme manifestation or another.

But as with every facet of experience, [warlike energies of separation] offer catalysts which, if used, helps the self to see and to accept the self. These energies of war are not that which is to be fought within the self precisely, but are that which is to be accepted and loved as part of the self, that the light may be brought into these energies and that they may be transmuted within the self toward the way of peaceful being.

We thank this group for indulging us in our reflections, and would remind each that the journey is yours to walk and not our own. We hope only to offer some food for thought as we continue our own journey toward our shared destination. We are a Halos and now transfer our contact to the one known as Trisha.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Biondha, and we are again with this instrument and with this circle. We hold so much gratitude for the opportunity to connect, to share whatever we can in service to you on this planet, and to learn from your own experiences as we watch from afar. We are always available to be of support to you on your journey, ready to answer your call, and always inspired by your acts of love, kindness, courage, and grace. And we are additionally thankful for the patience exercised by this group and by these instruments, for we understand that the courting process with us is but quite new, that there is still time for us to further blend our energies that the instruments may become more comfortable with our contact and more secure in the channel that they experience and the information that we share.

And so it is with profound love and light that we shall leave this group ever and always with our hearts open to you and your experience. We are those of Biondha, and we wish for you much love and light. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

From the March 28, 2025 transcript ↩

