Topics: External influence on thought; on seeking love in the moment; aligning to highest purpose and service to others; plasma clouds; Confederation interactions; guidance for the next step; importance of purpose and meaning in life; visualization; should one be meditating more; general counsel.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo. We greet this circle in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We join you today filled with joy and gratitude to be invited to this circle of seeking and to join you as you attempt to navigate the thrills and joys and sorrows of your third density—which, as many have noted during the process of your tuning called the round robin, is increasingly complicated and difficult. We express admiration at the awareness and the willingness of those within this circle to bring forward what the one known as G1 had pointed out as those unhappy experiences and difficulties. By bringing forward all manner of experience and seating them in the heart and your shared heart with this circle, you contribute to a palette that allows us to join you in painting the picture that is this circle of seeking and our expressions of thoughts and opinions to you as you request them.

And with this in mind, we would ask our typical favor of you. And that is that you do not take our words as authoritative in the sense that we are prescribing any particular belief or behavior, but rather take them simply as our opinion and our perception as we see it. We have traveled a similar journey to you and perhaps traveled a bit further, but the perspective that you have gained on your own journey is the most important tool that you have to further your spiritual seeking. And so we do not wish to create any distortions or present any stumbling blocks for you and ask that you maintain your sovereignty in navigating this difficult and joyful experience of third density.

If you grant us this favor, it will allow us to speak more freely of our own opinions and be able to join you in a more intimate way through this series of questions and responses. We thank you for considering this favor and at this time, would ask if there is a query to which we may respond?

Yes, I have one. I’m attempting to figure out where my thoughts are coming from in my head or are they coming from the dark side or is it just a silly thing that I do with my thoughts, which is basically run around in circles. Could you comment on if there is a difference, and if there is, what can you do to identify and read and understand the difference between the two: from me or from the dark side? [I’ll] put it that way.

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my brother. We would begin our response with a concept that we understand is quite familiar to you and to this group, and that is that the origin of these thoughts and inner feelings comes from one source. And that source is the One Infinite Creator, the source of all things. And so from the grandest perspective, no matter where it seems your thoughts may come from, it is all one source. And that source is full of love and light, no matter how it presents itself to you. It may be wearing certain masks and disguises at various times that hide that love and that light, but they come to you with that love and light asking to be recognized within them.

To speak to the more focused aspect of your query, you as a being within the third density certainly do have an incredibly complicated, what you might call, inner life that is difficult for you and for all seekers within the third density to navigate clearly. And so we understand the question and the desire to figure out what exactly is happening within the self, especially when you are blessed and, as some may see it, cursed with the knowledge that this is indeed a crowded universe; and that there are many beings and forces and energies that come to you at any given moment in an attempt to make their way into your thoughts and feelings and express themselves through you in some way.

Some of these external sources may indeed have motivations that you have identified in your query as being of the dark, as you say. Though we would frame it ourselves as an attempt to offer a particular service to you that they see is fitting for them to offer. It is indeed an aspect of the seeker’s journey within the third density that they will grapple with external forces that cannot be seen, cannot be made tangible, cannot be clearly defined as having an influence on the self and, indeed, do present themselves to you as perhaps your own personal thoughts and feelings.

We note that, as you spoke before this session began, the approach to discerning this in a particular perspective does not matter because the response, in many ways, would be the same whether the source is the self or from outside of the self. The impulse of the positive seeker, eventually, will be to bless that which comes to you, to accept it for what it is offering, and to allow it to exist within the self and within the heart, allowing the love that is within you to help melt its disguise; to break apart that external facade of difficulty and darkness and reveal itself to you as the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. This process would unfold very similarly whether these thoughts and feelings are generated solely from within the self or from outside of the self.

We would offer a further comment on being able to clarify this distinction, as it is important to your query. And that is that, as a positive seeker, there are tools available to you to help clarify this inner world so that those things that come to you can be made more obvious in their source. It is possible for a positive seeker who has dedicated themselves to a very regular and disciplined practice of meditation to become quite familiar with the inner workings of their own mind, and their own body, and indeed the shuttle of their own spirit, so that when there is, what you may say, an external influence, it is recognized as such, and thus can be accepted in that context within the self.

For you as a seeker within the third density operate with but a candle in a dark room; and to become more and more familiar with that dark room inside the self will allow you to utilize that candle to a greater and greater degree so that you can discern the truth, despite the darkness and despite the flickering candle flame that you have to operate with.

And we would offer one further suggestion for any seeker who is attempting to understand the nature of these external influences from what might be called the loyal opposition, and that is that there are rituals and practices within various religious or spiritual systems that are framed around the concept of protection, where you may perform such rituals in order to express and amplify your own personal desire to operate within an environment that is blessed with light, that accepts positive influences, and that identifies and kindly turns away negative influences.

We would not, in this situation, recommend any particular system of protection, but only suggest that if any seeker is really grappling with this question, that such rituals are available. And in performing them, you not only create a very real environment within the self and outside of the self that is blessed with light and makes it difficult for such external forces to wield their influence over you, but you also express, through this ritual, your desire to the self and to the Creator to utilize whatever catalyst comes to you in a positive way, to allow it to transform in your heart, and allow you to express the love and the light of the Infinite Creator no matter what comes your way, no matter what entity attempts to influence you, no matter what inner difficulty is attempting to grab your attention from within.

All of these things can be blessed. All of these things can be gifts. And we encourage each seeker attempting to discern these things to commit themselves to regular meditation and ritual to express this inner desire of service to others.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, thank you. It is quite comprehensive. Thank you.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query to which we may respond?

Yes, one of the most beautiful things you talk about is finding the love in the moment. And there are some spans of time when it’s very easy to have that mindset, and then other spans of time where it’s easy to become overwhelmed by emotion or just fall into routine. Do you have any guidance for staying more mindful of the mindset, of seeking the love in the moment?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my brother. And we would point out that within this query is the ever-present dynamic of the third density. For if holding love and discovering love in the moment were easy, even for the seeker who has walked the path through many incarnations, then the gifts of third density would not be available to the seeker. For it is in the difficulty, it is in the contrast and the friction where the essential quality of experience that the Creator is seeking can be found. For the Creator has cast out its creation in this attempt to hide from Itself and Its true nature, [that which] you may identify within the third density as love. If love were already apparent, the Creator would not be able to play this game of life with Itself. It must shield this knowledge from Itself, and in doing so, has manifest all of creation that you currently experience in this moment as the third density.

But we also understand that, as a seeker within the third density, there is the strong desire to more and more hold this perspective of the Creator and the true nature of love in every moment. It is this desire that informs the question that you ask that we find to be the most essential and important quality to cultivate within the self, to recognize, to concentrate on, to meditate on, to pray upon. For you will, as you have experienced, fail many times in finding that which you are seeking. You will stumble. You will feel misled or feel as though you have gone astray. But the most consistent guiding star that you can find is within the self and within the heart, and you can identify it as that desire to find love.

And so we would encourage any seeker struggling with the difficulties identified within this query, [to remember] that love can often be very hidden and that the seeker has patterns and difficulties that keeps them from holding this perspective.

When this occurs, we suggest to the seeker to turn inward into the heart and not to attempt to force a perception of love, but to touch again that desire to find love, and recognize that this is the desire of the Creator. And that in touching it, you can find love within that moment through the fact that you desire to find it.

It is this very dynamic that enables a seeker to continue within the third density and polarize despite having such a chaotic and darkened and veiled experience. It is intentional that this flame within the self is only found by going inside on a regular basis. And as we commonly suggest when attempting to address such concerns of seekers within the third density, that the seeker develops a regular habit of meditation, so that they can more easily find this desire in those moments, that they can more easily tap into that heart. And in doing so, you may be surprised at where you find love in any moment; how it presents itself to you and how to discover, you may say, the path through the maze of third density to the delivery point of love.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, and I share my gratitude for your answer. Thank you.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we would transfer the contact to the one known as Gary. We are Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. We are grateful to speak through this instrument to meet his strong challenges to us and to blend our energies with your own on both a metaphysical level and on the level of the dance of the question and response. We hope that which we share in response will not be that which is adopted uncritically in your own thought patterns because Q’uo said it or because it comes from some perceived higher authority; but rather [that it become] that which you chew over, consider, and contemplate distilling its meaning for you, its value for you, and where and how and whether to situate it in your own heart.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query to which, we may respond?

Hello Q’uo, what guidance can you provide us to help us align to our higher purpose and to be of maximum service to others?

We are those of Q’uo. We thank you for this universal query, our sister. And we first note the many steps upon the journey, the hardships experienced, the suffering born, and the length of that walk which has led any seeker to look within or to look up and ask themselves such a question as “What is my highest purpose? How may I align with that purpose, and as I perceive suffering and need around me, how may I be of the greatest service to others?”

These questions are both the cornerstone and the compass settings that facilitate the fulfillment of these questions and the discovery of their answers. For the journey itself is that which is the fulfillment of one’s highest and best. The journey itself is that which is of service to others. There is not one all-purpose configuration for the self which, when adopted, locks one into a static and unchanging maximum service, or highest destiny. Instead, it is a gradual process—sometimes punctuated by dramatic change—that occurs over time as the self discovers ever deeper and deeper layers of itself. [One] learns to shed those illusions and concepts about who the self had believed itself to be, those limitations of personality, of defense, of blockage, of imbalance that had kept the awareness of the self identified with limited, finite forms of being.

This great work of disciplined consciousness to access the heart, to find love where it seems lacking, to heal that which has been, or perceived to have been, wounded within the self, to forgive they who seem to have caused harm to the self, or to forgive the self or perceived error—this work gradually sheds those costumes which the self unknowingly adopts when interfacing with the self and with other-selves. As this journey is undertaken, the self finds a new layer of who the self has really been underneath the pretenses. And in that realer self is so much that wants to be shared, so much that wants to be given, be that the specific gifts and talents of the person—whether the person may sing or counsel or organize or connect or build or listen—or, deeper still, the wellspring of love and light that lives within each soul. [This is] the Creator that wants to come through your heart, your cleared and balanced energy centers, that the Creator may shine through you, uplifting and ennobling you as a radiant source of light in the illusion, like the star which is self-luminous in your night sky.

By holding to this question, letting it lead you where it may, trusting the Creator, trusting the moment, and accepting what unfolds for you upon your journey is a great art. And like any art or discipline, is one that one can learn to refine, intensify, and deepen over time. It is that which brings to you that which you seek: the greatest service to others of which you are capable in any given moment and the highest fulfillment of your deepest purpose.

In short, we may say that each spiritual seeker is engaged upon one great journey to free and liberate the consciousness from a seeming system of separation of an individual identity [bracketed by] fear and doubt; to move from that seeming position so that the consciousness may merge, once again, with the heart of the self into union with the One Creator from which the self only seemed to have become separated. Infinitely unique though the variations on that journey are, their source and destination, shall we say, are one and the same: the One Infinite Creator.

In discovering the self that is you—not just an abstract concept of some great nebulous self, but the you that lives and walks in your shoes every day, that looks in the mirror each day, that drives the car, that stresses out, that feels this or that source of tension, that feels this or that node of imperfection—to discover that this self is none other than the One Creator. This discovery, this self-realization is the highest purpose for all beings. It is the highest service to others for all beings. It will, of necessity, manifest differently according to the unique configurations of the individual. But it is the brightest light, the strongest frequency of love. It is that which is, unto itself, effortlessly of service. It is that which does not place the personality upon a pedestal but rather is that which reminds other selves of what lays hidden in the depths of their own being.

We are Q’uo, and would ask if there is a follow up to this query?

No, thank you so much, Q’uo.

And we thank you, our sister. Is there another query in the circle to which we may respond?

Q’uo, Robert Temple has written a book The New Science of Heaven, where he talks about plasma and “Kordylewski clouds”; speaking of these plasma clouds that are nine times bigger than Earth, and two of those between here and the moon. And they’ve been there for billions of years, and he calculates what have evolved tremendous intelligence associated with that. Is there a mechanism that we can connect in with these clouds, their intelligence? Can they enlighten us? Should we be pursuing this?

We are those of Q’uo and have perceived your query, our brother, and we would preface by saying that you may not be satisfied with the specificity that you seek through this particular instrument. But we can speak generally to the many manifestations and phenomena of the Creator in your space/time and time/space experiences. And there are, indeed, whether of the plasma variety or others, many, many phenomena beyond the horizon of your people’s understanding and gained knowledge and experience.

Whether it is helpful to connect to other such forms of intelligence in the universe is for the self’s discernment. But to seek such connection, we, in general, would counsel the quieting of the mind, the abiding in that place of silence and emptiness, and the casting of the invitation accompanied by the opening of the mind that that which is there in the infinite forms of intelligence, in the manifest creation, may receive the invitation and respond accordingly. And that whatever level of connection and dialogue may be available may unfold for the self.

Is there a follow up to this query?

Not directly related, but back in 1957 it was reported that a UFO landed, Valiant Thor, exited and went to Washington, DC, and interacted with the president for three years. There was a book written about that. And I’ve recently, I’ve read in a book by Alina Damon, where she was off planet and verified this information to be true. And so if you feel so inclined to, if you could confirm that or comment on that? It would be appreciated

We are Q’uo and perceive the query, my brother. And we cannot speak to precisely how accurate or inaccurate these volumes are, but we may confirm that they do point to events which have transpired between members of our own society and members of yours.

At this time, we would transfer our contact back to the one known as Austin, that we may be available for more queries We are those known to you as Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo, and I’m again with this instrument. We would ask if there is a further query to which we may respond at this time?

Q’uo, I have a question. Creator has been directing me and asking me to move forward with my abilities and knowledge to help others through everything we’re going through now, but I have not been able, through multiple askings and meditations, to get a more precise understanding of what it is that they want me to share and to teach. So any information, any insight around that you could help, that you could give me would be great, grateful. I really appreciate it. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of this query, my sister. We appreciate the angle of this query. For as you have noted, we often recommend that meditation be the primary tool by which one finds the inner voice that can guide one towards such service as you are describing, and you have noted that you are utilizing this most powerful tool in an attempt to discern your path forward. And so we commend you for such a discipline and would provide further tools, you may say, in order to discover the journey before you.

We cannot guide specifically for you, our sister. For you have many gifts and a very well-developed sense of your inner world. We would instead point your perception outward and indicate that there is much communication that happens within the manifest world around you in many, many ways. Sometimes this communication is obvious. The most common of these has been identified among your people as synchronicity or the recurrence of various types of themes, numbers, animals, or any other sort of personal signpost that one can see and interpret based on one’s own particular circumstances. And so that is one step that we would recommend for a seeker in your position, who has developed a keen ear for the inner voice to then further hone that ear towards outer sources that may not be so obvious to you.

We can suggest a step further, in that the qualities of the reality about you contain much information hidden in every circumstance, every person, every entity, every object, every cell, and every atom. There is the light of the One Infinite Creator that guides seekers and can provide you with information about yourself and about your journey. And these things can present themselves in unique arrangements that you might call symbolic or archetypal.

We would recommend that a seeker in your position who has had a long journey of honing tools of service, that the life might become a more archetypal expression within the third density. That you can begin to embody certain patterns of consciousness and patterns of service, you may say. If you learn to listen both to that inner voice and pay very close attention to the circumstances around you, the archetypes that you might traverse and embody and explore become resonant in what you witness.

This dynamic is what we would call an advanced dynamic, where the prerequisite of regular meditation and maintaining the inner perception is already met and the experience of the outer world has been utilized to a certain extent already in the most obvious ways. And then the path becomes much more subtle, and the need to pay closer attention to what you see and sense about you in your waking life, in your day-to-day life, the patterns and resonances that come to you. They all will contain signs and guideposts.

And we would offer a further suggestion that we find there is no shortage of within you, particularly, but is an important aspect of this dynamic, and that is of patience for each entity, each seeker, particularly seekers within the third density, will receive opportunities that are necessary for that seeker to unfold into its greatest being . The opportunities will present themselves differently to different seekers and in different ways, but to maintain the faith and the knowledge that such opportunities do exist right now and will exist in the future for you to further your own journey of service is an essential stone of this bridge towards that service.

And so we would simply reiterate the meditation inward can then become a meditation outward upon what is about you.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, thank you. I’m grateful.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo. We all have to make a choice of service to self or to others, but I’m concerned that a lot of people in my family and around me have no sense of meaning, and they just unconsciously follow a purpose. Either because they’re taught that’s a good thing, or they’re following what society does. And so they lose sight of this, and they get distracted by negative influences. My question is: how important is it for someone to formally stop and say “This is my choice. This is my purpose in life. I will be devoted to myself or to service to others, and this will be my path going forward”?

I am Q’uo and aware of the query, my brother. We find this to be a very important query at this moment upon your planet. For as you are aware, your planet and the people upon it are undergoing a transformation. And in this transformation for the seekers within third density, that choice identified in the query is of the utmost importance for those seekers to advance along the path.

We would address the specifics of your query from several angles. We would begin by reiterating a message that we delivered previously, and that is that each entity will receive the opportunity that it needs to continue on its journey. This is, in our experience, universally true no matter the circumstance and no matter the entity. It can often seem otherwise within the third density. For within the darkness of your veiled perception, much can seem chaotic or random or overly complicated, and thus, it is not obvious to you that the opportunities presented to you or to your other-selves are indeed opportunities. They may seem to be just happenstance and easily dismissed. This is the nature of the third density as we understand it, that the necessity of the individual seeker is not apparent, and thus, there is a, you might say, built-in dynamic within the third density to amplify the catalyst that a seeker experiences until that catalyst is realized for what it is; and that is a transformative gift, a potent alchemical solution offered to each individual that they can take and utilize for that positive transformation.

This may not happen within a single lifetime or multiple lifetimes. There are many seekers upon your planet whose origins are upon a third-density planet elsewhere who, for one reason or another, were unable to grasp that thread and point the needle. And so they join you here for further attempts. This is not a failure, and this is not to be looked down upon in any way. It is simply the journey of each individual and an expression of the free will offered to each individual to play within the, what you might call, outrageous circumstances of third density and to realize those circumstances as being divinely constructed for the self so that they can recognize the true nature of self within the heart and move forward.

You ask within your query how important is it for the seeker to explicitly declare that this is my choice, whether service to self or service to others, and that this is the path that I will follow. We will say that, in our perception, this declaration has many, many forms within your third density and is not always apparent, especially to those seekers such as you who have dedicated themselves very strongly to a path of spiritual seeking and to exploring various spiritual systems that live within your world. For there are many seekers who would not necessarily describe their path as spiritual, but the nature of their choice can be seen in their eyes and in their hearts; how they express themselves to the world; how they receive their other-selves; how they desire to share themselves with the world. None of this requires an explicit statement on behalf of the seeker and a recognition that there is a metaphysical system of polarity, or the specific jargon one might ascribe to such moral progression.

But there is a recognition within that seeker who has made the choice within the self that this is the path that they chose, and that they wish to continue pursuing. This may be the most simple expression of love whenever they can discover it within themselves. Or alternatively, a maneuvering and manipulation socially, if they have chosen the path of service to self, despite not recognizing what they are doing is spiritually significant. It can still be significant without that conscious realization.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, thank you Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we return the contact to the one known as Gary to receive further clearance. We are Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we open, once again, to receive any query that may be upon your heart.

I have a question, Q’uo. In the Ra materials, pyramids are mentioned, and the construction and very specific details of pyramids and their use. My question though is more of what if any benefit would there be to visualizing a pyramid, say a pyramid visualization used for like meditation? Would that be a benefit?

We are those of Q’uo and received your query, our sister. Indeed, the holding of an image in the mind, as you say, the visualization for a sustained period of time is a tool not only of meditation, but of the white magician as well. Whatever image is held in mind, it is a mechanism of training and disciplining the attention in that great art of single-pointedness.

Though each image may also invite the consciousness of the self into exploration of different themes within its own being. In the case of that shape known to you as the pyramid, it may invite the self into a contemplation and an opening to that theme of transformation. For that is the beau geste of this great shape, that of the encountering of the self and the transcendence and transformation of that self. We are. Q’uo. Is there a follow up to this query?

No, there’s not. Thank you very much.

And we thank you, our sister. Is there another query in the circle?

Yes, Q’uo, I all too frequently recognize that I do not spend nearly enough time in meditation, but I do spend time reading materials that tend to be spiritually motivational. I’m aware that it would be far more worthwhile to spend reading time in meditation [instead]. Can you, from your experience and awareness, estimate the amount of time that people on Earth spend in meditation or pursuing motivational materials to enhance their spirituality?

We are those of Q’uo and appreciate this interesting question, our brother. Our answer to this quantification of the time spent in meditation is not enough.

Your people seem generally little inclined to exit or quiet the compulsive stream of thought and the march of forms through the mind for the time necessary to be with experience, to bring the attention to rest in the moment, and to be present with neither attachment nor aversion.

But to your question, there are multiple ways to feed and nourish the spiritual being within the self that quite validly include this time spent with inspirational material, whether it is that which we share through instruments or the accounts and reflections of others. It is important to spend this time in study as well, particularly if the self feels called to this study. It is important to listen to the self’s needs and inclinations. If the self is feeling drawn to that book because it lifts the perspective, helps one to feel contact with the ground of their being and with love of the Creator, helps the busy mind to disengage from its loops of worry and anxiety [in order to] tap into that infinite stream of inspiration that is ever available.

Then, my friend, you have found a portal into your own source of contemplation and inspiration, and this is important. Consider that, while you spend time in this reading, what you are not doing with that time. You are not, as many of your peoples are, engaged in the distractions of sleep and forgetting. You are not merely seeking comfort and gratification. Instead, you are engaging the gears of your own spiritual journey that you may feel that spirit more strongly, and that it may not live within you simply for self benefit but that you may be a brighter, better human being, as you would see it; that you may be more available to the needs of love and to the voice of love that that may live in and through you to others. We would reflect how often that this manifests for you, our brother, in the context of these meetings, as you open up and the eyes water and you share those heartfelt perceptions of your heart in free giving and with the only desire being to support those gathered among you in this circle.

If in your estimation you are feeling called to that great and central discipline of formal meditation and to feel that it is being neglected in your life, then this is good grist for the mill, that is, it is good material for you to examine. Are you feeling such a call because of an idea that you had absorbed from some source like ours or elsewhere that you, the entity, must be meditating and thus feel friction when not engaged in this practice? Or is it that you see that your own objectives—namely and most broadly self-realization and service to others—may be effectuated by this practice known as meditation? One must suss this out for the self and find out what the beliefs or the limitations of belief are, and follow the heart accordingly.

Once again, we would emphasize the value and utility of the practice of concentrating the attention and quieting the mind for stepping out of the stream of consciousness and stepping into the infinite present moment where one may tabernacle with the Creator more directly and immediately in the lived experience of that moment. For it is well known to those in this circle that the thinking mind can lead one astray from the desired incarnational lessons; from perceiving more clearly the dynamic at hand; from those keys which might unlock the imbalances and blockages so that love and light might flow through a clarified heart.

Whatever the tangle and complexity of the outer situation, abeyance of this thinking mind is needed for the seeker of truth, particularly in your world. It is a daily roar of countless sources of information and stimulation and societal and personal attempts at manipulation that bombard you each day anew. Even if you were removed from this context and situated upon a desert island, the soul inhabitant thereof, you would still bring this society with you into your consciousness and still benefit from learning to quiet the mind that you may listen and hear that still small voice that goes unheard underneath the daily roar of the noise.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, thank you.

We would ask if there is a final inquiry in this circle before transferring this contact back to the one known as Austin for our close

Q’uo, [name], whose been part of this group, at times, asks if you have a word or a thought for him?

We are those of Q’uo and thank you for this query, for there is always an honor to lend encouragement to our friends who travel the valley of the shadow of death, as it’s called, in one of your scriptural works through this third-density experience. What is coming up for us is to say is, keep up the good fight, our brother…

Thank you.

We thank you, our brother. We would add also to go easy upon the self, to release the judgmental eyes which look upon the self with all the things not done, or all the things done wrongly, as it would seem. And to recognize what has been accomplished. How far the self has journeyed. And however imperfectly manifested, to honor those intentions within the self which seek to be better, which seek to serve or seek to find the path laid before one. Yes, there are ever shadows within the self. This is inescapable. There are self-serving or selfish energies. There are knee-jerk reactions. There is impatience or anger or a sense of inferiority or superiority.

Many are the distortions, but they who walk a spiritual journey have become conscious of an inner flame within them. Your friend and ours is aware of such a flame, and is doing his best to brighten it maximally and to allow it, or rather to find its greatest path of outlet, so this entity may be of service. And whatever the perceived destination, whether it be near or far, whatever the preconceptions about what it may look like, living of this journey right now, today, and tomorrow and the next is the point. And he is well upon that path.

And once again, to close, we would recommend to him, as we have spoken multiple times in this session, that practice of meditation. For meditation, one can more keenly find that path which has been laid for the seeker. For there is not a spiritual seeker on the planet who does not have a plan, does not have that path which they had laid for themselves to facilitate the learning and the growth and the service.

It is easy to lose awareness of this path; not only easy, but almost unavoidable at times. But meditation, however, that may look for the self, the contemplation, and the prayer are means of tuning the self that this path may become more apparent to the awareness. It is not necessarily that the whole scheme will be revealed to the self who meditates, and every step from now to the incarnation’s end or to eternity itself will be revealed.

But rather, most fundamentally, that the self can come into a trust that where they stand right now is on that path. And in that inner space that they create, trust can fill the heart and displace the anxiety, the worry, and the fear, so that the self may go forward with clear perception in the trust that they cannot make a mistake; that their lessons and their opportunities will meet them. And in that faith, insofar as the self can allow it to be a conscious, self-chosen principle within the heart, the self will be more clearly aligning with their highest destiny, and will be creating space to magnetize those opportunities for the highest fulfillment, which looks like simple trust and the freedom to release the self from fear.

Thank you so much. Q’uo. I really appreciate it. It’s been wonderful.

We thank you, our brother. And at this time, we transfer our contact to the one known as Austin.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo, and I’m again with this instrument. We would take this opportunity to again express our deep gratitude for those present within this circle and also all those who are aware of our words in one way or another. And who offer their calling to us from about your planet. For the interaction with the third density, particularly a planet as potent as yours, is our own catalyst for growth. Interacting with you in this way, and offering our own thoughts and opinions and perspectives on the nature of the Creator, allows us to further progress on our journey. And together we join hands with you as you are upon your journey. And together we walk the road paved with love to the One Infinite Creator.

We, at this time, take leave of this instrument and of this circle. We leave you as we found you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

