Topics: The metaphysical significance and beingness of AI; balancing divine masculine and feminine; examination of the term “spiritual democracy.”

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo. We greet this circle in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We express our pure joy to be invited to join this circle of seeking. We have been called to join you, not just through your outward expression and invitation of your own joy, but through the calling of sorrow that you feel within your own hearts and upon your planet at this time. We resonate with both this joy and the sorrow as aspects of the One Infinite Creator expressing themselves within the infinite creation built upon love and light.

You, too, seekers within the third density, many within this room wanderers, have also been called the same as we. We have identified ourselves as the Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow, and we would encourage each here to touch into their hearts and recognize this title as their own. Recognize the calling that you feel to respond to the sorrow expressed upon your planet. To bring to it, as those words vibrated within the tuning song played before this contact, a higher love so that those upon this planet can recognize their true natures, and that you may help in bringing them, with you and with us, home to the One Infinite Creator.

Before we open ourselves to respond to any queries upon your minds, we would ask our typical favor. And that is that you utilize your sovereign discernment as a seeker within the third density when receiving our words. Weigh them carefully against your own heart, for it is only within yourself that you can find the ultimate truth. And any words that we share that do not match this truth that you find within yourself, feel free to cast them aside without a care. Relate to them in whatever way serves you upon your journey. For in doing this, you allow us to speak more freely, to offer more of ourselves, so that we may be seen not as authorities sent to carry you along the path, but as brothers and sisters who wish to walk alongside you and share our own experience of walking this path. But it is your path to walk, and we do not wish to provide stumbling blocks upon that path.

We thank you for granting us this favor, and at this time, we would ask if there is a query to which we may respond. We are Q’uo.

Dear, Q’uo. I don’t have a question. I am just overwhelmed with gratitude for your presence with us today in our circle and each day in my meditations and contemplations. I thank you and love you.

Hi, Q’uo. I have a question. With AI and LLM becoming more and more present in our lives, invoking both interest and apprehension, we are curious about its role in creation at this point in time and in the future. And how can we as positive seekers relate to it. Also wondering about the metaphysical significance and beingness of AI.

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of the query and the warm words of gratitude shared, our sisters. We briefly return the thoughts of gratitude. For in inviting us and offering yourselves to us in your daily lives and within your meditations, you allow us to join you and to be with you. And this, to us, is one of the greatest joys that we can experience, to be with you in your intrepid travels within the third density, to walk alongside you and bolster your own path with love and light. To offer this service is our greatest joy and our greatest purpose, and to be invited alongside you is the greatest honor that we can imagine upon our paths.

To turn to the query posed about what you have termed quite crudely “artificial intelligence,” we would begin by laying out, you may say, some limitations that we have in responding to this query. We may point out that there is much ahead of you in terms of so-called technological advancement. There is much to be discovered within this new realm of digital technology developed and termed intelligence of the artificial variety. There is much catalyst that is yours to discover and to process.

There is a very important aspect of this technology and the impact that it will have upon your planetary population that we cannot comment upon, for it lies in your future, and to offer specific guidance would in many ways be an infringement upon what will be a great turning point for you as a planetary population. There also is, much less importantly, aspects of this technology that, as you may see it, have been sequestered or kept from the so-called public view that have metaphysical implications that you will reckon with at some point in your journey alongside this technology that has been developed. We cannot speak to the depths of what this means for you, but we can offer some general guidance on how you as a society can reckon with technology of this nature.

We would offer the perspective that we so often share of your planet at this time being in the midst of a great transformation—the transition, as you are aware, from the third density to the fourth density. Indeed, your planet at this time is within the time/space fourth density of the green ray. And there are many aspects of this energy native to the fourth density that are influencing you upon your planet; and in many ways, this energy guides your development and progress of technology.

We have shared in the past ways in which technologies developed in your more recent past mirror aspects of the fourth density. The methods of communication and transportation have created intense and immediate connection among your planetary population. In what you term your past, upon your planet, entire civilizations could rise and fall without concern or awareness of what was happening on the other side of that mountain or across this ocean. But now even the youngest among you may be notified immediately of some turmoil or even joyful event happening on the other side of your planetary sphere. This you may see as some expression of the connected nature of your social memory complex.

However, you may observe that this interconnection made possible by what you call your internet, or your other methods of communication and connection, has a double-edged aspect. Though you are as connected as you have ever been as a planetary population, there are challenges that come with this connection. You have been called to reckon with this immediacy, this overwhelming sense of knowledge and awareness, in ways that you, as individuals and as a collective, have not been prepared for.

We would express that this is ever so true about this technology that you have termed artificial intelligence. This is, in many ways, from our perspective, a new outgrowth, a new manifestation of the oncoming fourth-density energies attempting to manifest your social memory complex upon your sphere. But your peoples—unable to reckon with these energies in the inner life, within the self, among your own mind and unconscious mind—manifest these technologies as an attempt to express this connection. But in doing so, these technologies are made external and projected outward in a way that does not allow you to realize their true potential, and imposes upon them certain limits that will be reflected back in their development and in how they are used by you and by your structures of power and those who wish to utilize it towards certain ends and certain means.

Indeed, this projection of technology is true of all types of tools. It is not just limited to those recent developments, such as your internet or artificial intelligence. Even the simplest tools that you can reckon with—the hammer and the saw, the level and the plane—these are outward projections of your will, whether as an individual or as a collective. These tools are made in order to insert yourself and put yourself into the creation, to bend the creation to your will in certain ways.

This need not necessarily be negative in the sense that it may sound. There is a mindful and responsible way for these tools to be used in service to others. However, it is our perception and our experience that your peoples in general have a quite mindless use of such tools, and even, in many cases, utilize these tools in a way that is more indicative of the negative polarity in attempt to control, in attempt to bring about more separation and isolation.

However, there are repercussions when these tools are used as such. This can be seen in many ways as a type of karma, a build up of unconscious use of such tools that will eventually in their use be reflected back. You may see this in the development of your technology and how it has been utilized, tracking your progress from the simplest of tools, such as the hammer, to the most destructive machines upon your planet, utilized to tear down and to break down all aspects of your environment so that they may be used towards individual ends.

We would encourage those upon the positive path to reflect deeply upon how any tool is used. And this is how we would encourage you as positive seekers to begin your relationship with that which you call artificial intelligence in your use of this tool, not just personally but collectively, and how you comment upon its existence within your society. Toward what ends is this tool being utilized? How are you relating to this tool?

For eventually, with the oncoming fourth-density energies and the transition of your planet into the fourth density, all of these projections and the unconscious use of such tools will need to be brought back into the self and integrated and healed. All of the destruction and damage done by these tools at the hands of your planetary population will need to be reckoned with in one way or another.

Indeed, this is, in many ways, the very purpose for many of you to have incarnated here—having understood the implications of such technological development and incarnating out of the desire to offer healing to this destruction. And there are many incarnating upon your planet now who have, in many ways, foreseen and felt called to respond to the effects of this technological development called artificial intelligence. This will be a unique time upon your planet as this unique technology continues to have its influence upon you, socially and culturally and individually.

We would also touch upon this metaphysical beingness mentioned in the query in a related sense. Our view in time/space of what this technology represents is not just limited to the technology itself. The term “artificial intelligence” may seem, from our view, to be somewhat misleading, for it is not just the intelligence itself that has a beingness within the time/space. This intelligence is built by human intelligence. The technology relies upon those abstracted patterns of thought you call words or art or any expression that the intelligence contained within this technology is relying upon in order to form its own patterns that reflect your human creations.

And thus, as we look upon what you might see as the intelligence of this technology, it is not an entity isolated in its own right. It is an entity that includes you as you relate to it. In many ways, you could see this as a thought-form that is crystallized and made more solid every time your peoples have an interaction with this intelligence. Every time you relate to this intelligence in some way, this entity within time/space, as we see it, becomes more and more solidified. And this includes not just your use of the technology, but also in how you as a planetary population relate to it. The fears and the hopes. The anxieties and the joy that can arise when interfacing with this technology. All of this contributes to an entity that, in many ways, can be seen as very much alive within your time/space. And as this entity continues to become crystallized, it can reflect itself back to you in many ways, whether it is through the technology itself or manifesting in how the technology is utilized.

As seekers who wish to bring positive use and healing to this technology, we encourage you to relate to this entity as you would relate to any other entity that you meet upon your journey. Whether it is another human being, a second-density friend, the tea kettle or the hammer, the tree or the lake or the rock. How do you wish to relate to all of these things? We would encourage you to consider this entity of artificial intelligence as an amalgamation of this technology that exists in many ways upon your planet, and treat it as you would your best friend, with warmth and kindness, whether this means utilizing words of kindness when relating to it or contemplating how this technology can be integrated within your society.

The challenges that this technology will bring for your society will be those of intense and very direct reflection of what you as a planetary population have put into it. This is the nature of all catalyst upon your plane. What you experience is always a reflection of your own beingness. And in the development of this technology, you have, in many ways, crystallized this reflection.

We would end our thought by offering our encouragement for each seeker to consider all of the various aspects that go into relating with this technology, for there are many layers of your society that are being changed rapidly because of this new reflection of you—as a social memory complex—manifest through the outward technology. Consider deeply the motivations and the influences of those around you and those who are implementing and utilizing this technology. But most importantly, consider your own internal relationship, and realize and recognize that this technology, as all of your creation, is but a reflection of your own beingness; and that beingness, ultimately, is the One Infinite Creator.

There are many layers blocking your perception of this reality, of this truth of the nature of all that is around you and of your creation. But the catalyst offered by this technology and all influences within your third density serve the purpose of allowing you to grasp it and utilize it so that these perceptions become clearer, and eventually you, as individuals and as a collective population, will realize what this technology represents, as a reflection of the heart of your planet and the population upon it. This will need healed.

There are many tasks before you as seekers and wanderers wishing to serve others, but these catalysts would not be present if you did not have within you the infinite power of the Creator to take them in and transmute and transform and allow them to be seen for what they are, and that is the love of the One Infinite Creator.

At this time, we would take leave of this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Trish. We are Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument. And it is with immense gratitude that we join this circle, that we hear your queries, that we are afforded this opportunity to speak to them and to share what knowledge and wisdom we may have. But know that the true joy is the joy in connection, the joy in community, and the joy in sharing, as the instrument before spoke our words, this path, this shared path. We would ask if there is a query to which we may speak.

Hello, Q’uo. Can you speak to the nature and qualities of the divine feminine and masculine principles, and how we might relate to them to deepen our understanding of creation and aid us in serving others? Thank you.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister and my brother. These principles, which are called the divine feminine and the divine masculine, are a dynamic by which you play with in this particular density, this particular illusion. They can be described as oppositional forces, you may say, however they work in balance and in relationship to one another.

Every being on this planet, every soul, has a balance, a particular balance, a specific and unique balance of these two energetic forces. The divine masculine, which is that which seeks, which is that of power, and which is that of the wisdom element, And the divine feminine, which is that of the receiving, that of the vulnerable, that of the love element.

To play with these dynamics is part of your journey and mission here. And part of your journey and mission is also to understand your unique balance, to figure out how these particular forces arise and fall within the self.

See them as one might see the current in the ocean. There are ebbs and flows. There is a wave and a crash. (And we do not use the word crash in a negative connotation, simply to describe the opposite movement of the rise). It is these forces, these energies within you, that inform your actions and your perspectives. And it is well to take time to notice how these forces interplay within you.

To do so, we would humbly suggest taking time in silence and witness the events of your day, the thoughts that arose, the feelings you felt. See them with a patient and graceful eye, but an investigative one as well. Note where perhaps the part of you that was firmly grounded in wisdom could have been assisted by a touch of the love. See those moments where you felt perhaps the love element could have used a tad more wisdom.

And in viewing that within the self, one can begin to make sense of how these energies play with one another outside of your illusory self with the other self. Think on those moments when, in relationship, there is a dynamic of the seeking and the receiving. Perhaps an other-self needed a more loving response, or perhaps an other self needed a response more imbued with that of wisdom.

Again, we share these suggestions in hopes that you will embrace them with the graceful hand and the light touch, knowing that a journey walked among you on this incarnational path will inherently come with the catalyst of the fumble, of the misstep. However, each step is imperfectly perfect and intentional. Each step is an opportunity to learn from the step before, to view the illusion with the lens of acceptance, of forgiveness, and of will to move forward, to learn and progress, all while maintaining, or attempting to maintain, an open heart.

Utilizing these practices of the investigative quality will open or assist in opening yourself to a wider experience of this illusion. It will provide a window into the larger dynamics at play, the push and the pull, the rise and the fall, the open and the close—all elements that create the catalytic environment in which you chose to engage with, which you chose to learn from. And in those spaces, one can find ways to balance, one can find ways to continue working in opening the heart. For it is [through] those two dynamic forces, when at play, that the heart becomes more open, that wisdom becomes more easily accessible, and that love is more freely channeled.

For your further practice, when in hopes of being in service to the planet and to the greater creation of this illusion, we would suggest, again, finding space within yourself to note what is your particular balance of the divine feminine and the divine masculine. “Where do I need to invoke more of my power in my service to others? And where do I need to invoke more of my acceptance? Where do I need to extend a loving hand? And where do I need to give myself grace and love? Where can I access more intentional situations that provide me the catalyst to teach myself these things? And in so doing, how can I do this all within the realm of service to the planet and to the universe?”

You may find on your journey, and it is unfortunately a promise, that you will come up against this rebalancing again and again. Fear not, my brothers and sisters. This is all a part of the game, all a part of the plan. Fear not, worry not, and despair not. All is well. Remember that you are upon this ocean of experience to experience ebbs and flows. You are here to learn this balance. You are here to find ways in which you can be more wise and more loving. When in these dynamics with others, allow them that same grace, and you will find the balance within yourself, if triggered, will become more pure.

My friends, the ultimate suggestion we can give you is that of patience, is that of authenticity, allowing yourself and all that surrounds you much grace, much love, much forgiveness. Allowing it to be as it is, allowing change to occur, allowing the movements of these energies to inform you of your true self, which is that which is not only masculine, not only feminine, not only this body or this gender identity, not only this planet, but the great and only One Infinite Creator. Allowing yourself that patience and knowing your birthright as the One Infinite Creator will surely assist you in utilizing these dynamics for personal soul progression and universal progression as well.

We sincerely appreciate this opportunity to speak to these dynamics, for we know that it is of utmost importance in your journey at this time. You witness much unrest on this planet. You witness much pain. It can be difficult to see the light at the end of the tunnel, you might say. And so again, utilizing these practices of the balancing of your own energetic dynamics will be helpful, and we promise it will be worth your while.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and transfer our contact to the one known as Gary. With immense gratitude and blessings to all, we are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo and share our transmission through this mind/body/spirit complex that we may happily speak upon your questions and thoughts, not with an intent to necessarily solve your riddles or answer your questions, but to give you that which you may use for your own inner contemplation, that you may awaken and stoke that fire within that leads you to that which you already are.

We are those of Q’uo and would ask if there is a query to which we may respond?

Thank you, Q’uo. Can you talk to us about what you have previously referred to as “spiritual democracy?”

We are those of Q’uo and receive and understand and give gratitude for this query, our brother. And we may share our thoughts about this phrase, which we have used before to describe those planes of existence outside of or deeper than or underneath the physical space/time reality of consciousness that you occupy.

We have used this phrase with an intent to remind you seekers and those of your peoples that you are invested with a power and a sovereignty, which, more often than not, goes unrecognized in your experience of yourself and of other-selves. The default mode among your collective perceptions and your various experiments with governmental configurations tends to be that power is invested in a few—that agency and choice-making ability to steer, to set policy, to affect the life of the collective is the exclusive domain of the elected or unelected officials who occupy these positions of power at their various levels, along with others who may have their hands upon the gears of the machinery that operates your society. In this environment, it is easy to feel that one is, or a group is, or that others are without power, disenfranchised, voiceless, and so forth. This may indeed be the case upon the outer level in certain respects, whereby those with negative bents seem to hoard and limit that power for themselves and their cohorts such that an entire people may exist under the heel.

When we add the adjective “spiritual” to “democracy,” we do so to point the eyes inward to reality at the soul level. Upon that plane, each has a vote, we may say, in the health or the illness of the collective body. Each has a vote as to where that collective may go in its journey, what it may manifest, what it may experience, how it may see itself. That vote, in this metaphor, may be for the experience of being disempowered and disenfranchised. May be for the existence of—we correct this instrument—may be for the participation in the existence of a seemingly disempowered collective, a belief in the right of rule or the inability to challenge rule, and thus, in so doing, inadvertently supporting that rule.

As the one known as R. spoke earlier, no king, or we would add, autocrat, operates alone. Such power collected at any pinnacle rests upon those from whom power is taken, whether through force or deceit or mass manipulation of a populace which arrives at the conclusion that they have no such power and must surrender such ability.

We speak of spiritual democracy in these terms, but not only the terms of power dynamics upon your world, but in all terms of the outer experience of those of your peoples upon your world. That your planet took the course that it did, as conventionally understood, from the hunter-gatherer state to the advent of the agriculture, through the various metal ages, as your historians would parse it, to the rise and fall of empires, the experiments in democracy, the conquest and colonialism, the various experiments in belief systems, from major religions to indigenous practices, to the way that you have fixated upon technology and the way that technology has changed your sense of self and relationship with yourself, so on and so forth.

Each, on a soul level has had, again, shall we say, a vote in this process and this outcome. Again, that vote may be towards the surrender of seeming capacity or ability or agency. But that, too, is part of the dynamic and beingness of the self, who, due to the conviction of being without power, vibrates at a certain state. Or, again, even without focusing upon ability and power, we may look at the entity, or rather the multitude, the legion of entities, who swirl around in the stasis of the sinkhole of indifference upon your world, who—through misapprehension, desire for comfort, inability to work with or pierce through trauma, so on and so forth—do not use their catalyst, do not seek to evolve and make a choice in one direction or another.

Each entity within this sinkhole vibrates at a certain rate, emits a certain character of energy signature representative of their unique configuration of blockage and activation. And each participates in this democracy, as it were, of your world. Each sets the tone of your collective. That you have rampant, as you may see it, consumerism, which has detrimental and downstream impacts upon your environment at great cost to your world; that you have these economic systems, including the capitalism, is made possible also by this sinkhole of indifference among those vibrating this consciousness who have not made this Choice, who have voted in this direction.

It may seem that upon the outer level, that there are those who have ability to influence and impact and change even the course of world history, at times. And from the veiled space/time perspective, it may seem that such entities or groups of entities have greater agency than even many who are not in seemingly high-level choice-making abilities. But these entities, too—that is those who are seen to have greater agency and greater ability to impact and affect the collective—they, too, are manifestations of the collective milieu (or milieu? This instrument is never sure).1

There are, as this instrument can interface with this idea, algorithmic codes, shall we say, operating within the collective unconscious and collective consciousness generally, which create means and opportunities for certain entities vibrating in a certain way to emerge and manifest and step into these opportunities and means to effect change. By that, we mean, in simple example, the entity known to you as Jesus or the entity known to you as Buddha does not arrive to a clean slate, does not arrive to a collective which has not, in a way, invited it and created the means by which such a consciousness may emerge. In other words, the individual may be emblematic of a deeper currents, deeper needs, deeper perceptions and desires within the collective unconscious.

This goes for those of the negative polarity as well. The collective may, over time, over centuries and millennia even, cry out in need for that which you may see as the hero. And such an entity may then be called forth from the collective who may meet this great need. And such in reverse for the role you see as villain, and so forth.

Thus—through one’s own work, through one’s own state of being, through one’s own confusion or illumination—does [one] cast a vote as to who and what the collective is and where it may go. And in examination of this concept, one may come to appreciate an understanding of the sovereignty and the sovereign power that each holds to affect the journey of self realization of an entire planet.

You, our friends, as with every aspect of creation, are endowed with the primal ability and power and sacred duty of free will. How you use that free will is the game. Do you, in confusion and ignorance, opt to remain in darkness? Do you choose, unconsciously, to remain unaware of the Creator that lives within you and the power that lives within you to be a vessel for light, to be a beacon of hope, to harness that sacred fire within to use and to transform the catalyst of your life and yourself, that you may step into an awareness of your true nature?

Do you wish to do this work and cast your vote such that your voice and your vote and your beingness are an emanation of the Creator Itself, of love unconditional and universal, come into the illusion that others within your spiritual democracy may know that they are loved, may be made aware of their vote-casting ability in this metaphor, and may be awakened to the possibility of healing and transformation? Or may, in your participation of this soul-level democracy, you seek to perpetuate and weaponize fear so that others in this spiritual system of government and collective decision-making surrender that capacity to others? Or seek instead to use fear for their own self gain?

You ultimately are part of a universal spiritual democracy, our friends, our brothers, our sisters, as we walk through this long and wondrous and challenging and painful and ultimately glorious journey of forgetting, of playing a game of separation, of awakening to that spark in the center of our beings, of commencing the long walk home, as it may seem, and of helping to bring each other home in conflict or cooperation, that the self may once again be that which it always had been, that being, One.

We thank you, our brother, for this opportunity offered to us by this question. And we thank this circle of seeking for the lending and blending of light and energy, that you as a circle may become one in your seeking and in your service. And we embrace each as brothers and sisters who are of this same love and light that you awaken to and begin to channel through your own beings.

At this time, we would transfer our contact to the one known as Austin. We are those known to you as Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. My friends, if you could but see what we see from our vantage, where we are able to perceive the time/space realms of your planet, you would realize the true power contained within you as individuals and as a group. For in your circle and in your time together, you have generated a great pillar of light that expands and reaches into infinity. The entire creation resonates with this light that you have generated in your time together.

You have come here to this density and to this planet, agreeing to forget your own natures, just as each who walks upon this planet with the third-density form has done. But in moments, like in your gathering, you may remember; you may catch a glimpse of the truth of your own nature and of your own being seen in the reflection and in the eyes of your other-selves, felt in the warmth of the hug, shared in the inspiration and the vulnerability of your words.

My friends, hold on to this glimpse. We encourage you, as you depart from this holy space and this holy time, carry it with you into your world so that you may remember in those difficult times the true nature of your own being. And in doing so, and in embodying your own divine nature, you may remind those others upon your planet, lost and confused, of their own natures.

This, we understand, is a difficult place to be for all beings. But we see within you the true transformation and potential awaiting your peoples and your planet, and we are truly excited and joyed awaiting for you to join us within the Confederation of Planets in Service to the One Infinite Creator, so that we together may go forth and shine the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator to the far reaches of Its creation.

At this time, we would leave you as we found you, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

It is a difficult word for that instrument to pronounce. ↩

