Topics: Balancing love and wisdom; “places” graduating into third density; thoughts and negative greeting; the correlation between densities and the system described in Dr. Michael Newton’s work; an act of heroism; the best way to serve; how to remedy suffering of the heart; forming a social memory complex.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. And we greet you all in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. And we thank each of you for taking the time out of your day to join this group of spiritual seekers that you may blend your energies and your open hearts, and move as one as you ask your queries, as you listen to the responses, and as you feel inspired.

As you listen to what we say, we ask you look at it as our opinion, that which is not perfect, but that which is the best that we can offer, and use it as you will, even discarding it if that is necessary. For this will allow us to speak freely and not become any kind of a hindrance on your spiritual path.

With that said, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Yes, Q’uo, I have a question. How can we consciously balance love and wisdom to progress more harmoniously on the path of service to others?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my sister. This is the work of your third-density illusion. For you have what many call a kind of intellectual knowledge that could be seen at your level of existence as a wisdom, and yet it has that which lacks wisdom, and that is the limits of your knowledge. For the intellect is confined to the third-density illusion. So once you are able to move your heart in an open-hearted way that sees all as the Creator in whatever experience you are having, whatever experience you hope to have, this open heart leads you to the fifth-density of light, which is the wisdom density that sees beyond all boundaries of the third-density illusion.

And then in your meditation, look at whatever service you wish to offer, [including] service in general, and ask that the Creator’s love flow through your heart, and the Creator’s wisdom flow through your heart and become joined in equal nature in that effort that you are making to be of service to others.

And then when you come out of meditation, look around you and see how you may serve, if you have already decided your service, and approach that service with a feeling of love and wisdom that you have just asked the Creator to give you. And open your intuition, the intuition of your mind and your heart working together, to see the best way to proceed upon your journey of serving others.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, Q’uo. That brought a lot together. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I would like to follow up with a query in regards to [chakras]. So our fourth chakra is our love, our heart; our sixth chakra is our wisdom, our third eye; and in between, there is that throat chakra. And I find that to be one that often causes me blockage, trouble, wondering if there are ways or what suggestions you may have about that fifth chakra?

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my sister. The throat chakra is that center of your energy that can produce the wisdom that you see in the world around you that comes from looking at the world around you from a place out in outer space, shall we say. So that you get an overview to see how the third-density illusion moves in a lack of harmony with seeing the Creator in all beings. The ability to see the Creator in yourself, in your throat chakra, and seeing the Creator in all others from that overview, is one way of accessing more of the wisdom that you may use in living your daily life in whatever you do, whatever you think, whatever you say, whatever you are.

This is a path which must be taken by one who has opened its heart in love and service to others at least 51% of what you call time. For the heart must be open before wisdom may be accessed. So when it is open, you may see the balance of love and wisdom within your being, so that what you serve and say to others is reflected back to you as that which is appropriate, and the way that you can move in service to others in a balanced fashion.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you. That helps.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. This is from S: “I’m curious about a place graduating into a third-density entity. Does that result in a different personality or different preoccupations or goals in that person’s life, or change how that person has or views relationships?”

I am Q’uo, and we must ask if you are referring to a third-density being, becoming a third-density being, or a second-density being, becoming a third-density being?

Yes, I believe she’s referring to the last time we were here. The one known as Jim was referring to the way that a home such as this one may be able to graduate, and so I believe what she’s referring to is whether being able to engender or being able to bring a site or a place into a further state of advancement would shift the thinking of not just that site, but the person who may be dwelling there. The person that may have pushed that forward with that site. Does that make sense?

I am Q’uo, and yes, my brother. This does indeed make sense. For a place or a site such as this home was spoken of by those of Ra as a third type of being that may be invested with the love of those who inhabit that home, so that it may become a third-density being. This particular home, as many know, was already blessed before anyone moved here in 1984 when those known as Don, Carla, and Jim moved here. So there was already the blessing of this home at that time, and this blessing of love has continued over the years, as groups such as this group which sits in this circle at this time, have met so many hundreds of times and brought their love and light to this home, imbued it with that love and light so that it is very possible that this home could have become, or shall become a third-density being, and move in its next incarnation into a third-density planet other than this planet that you now exist upon, for there is very little time left within its third-density experience.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you so much, I appreciate that.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we will transfer this contact to the one known as Gary. We are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

Greetings, our friends. We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. And once again, through this instrument, we are happy to receive your queries and offer our thoughts, not as answers or solutions per se, but as grist for your own mill that you may refine, distill, and consider for your own journey.

We would ask if there is a question at this time?

Q’uo, I do have a question. I feel honored to be in the presence of those and to receive these teachings and wisdom from you and the principle of Q’uo, and I thank you for that. My question is, when I’m receiving teachings from other beings, interdimensional, they always identify themselves as from I am, from the density of love and understanding, or the density of unity, which I take to be the sixth density and those Arcturian teachers. But of late, what has been included is we’re of the density of unity and oneness, and I take that to be inclusive of other realms. And I’m trying to be more diligent to understand what this expansion of the concept of oneness is in relationship to the densities. And I’m wondering if you could clarify that in any way for me. Thank you.

We are those of Q’uo, and our sister, it is our honor to have this rare and precious opportunity to commingle with those outside of our realms of experience. Those undertaking the, shall we say, most challenging and rewarding aspects of the journey through this octave within the third density. We thank you and understand your question to be examining the experience or awareness of oneness as one moves through the densities. That is, what is the experience of oneness from the fourth- or the fifth- or the sixth-density perspective and so forth. Is that the gist of your question, our sister?

Yes, it is, Q’uo. And in addition, I feel that it’s an expansion, for instance, the mind/body/spirit beingness totality. I feel as if the totality concept of the beingness of being is represented in the density of oneness, which would include devas, angels, guardians, lords of karma, all these other outside of the sixth density. It seems to be an expansion of that totality of six density. Am I correct in my direction of thinking or perceiving?

We are those of Q’uo and would say that this is indeed fruitful for your consideration. However, regarding the various terminologies which you have used, it is difficult to formulate one system that would create an ontological framework that would be universal and work for all beings. For the terms applied to the citizens of the various densities and realms of consciousness vary, as do the third-density entities’ experience of these entities in their interpretation of the love and the light that they emanate, and the source from which they seem to be communicating.

An angel, as it were, could be taken to be an entity that is any entity who is of a non-physical and loving nature. Which could be of your own inner planes, or that of the fourth or the fifth or higher densities and so forth. As with the other terms which you have used.

You have cited a specific entity, that of the mind/body/spirit complex totality. And that is, we can say, within our framework of understanding, that entity which resides within the seventh density. It may be likened to that which, in your eastern teaching, is described as the Atman.1 It is the fullness, the totality, the wholeness of the individual and its total journey through its many incarnations, parallel existences, space/time and time/space journeys through all densities, all energy levels, and so forth.

You are correct in the assumption that as the entity progresses, so too does their scope and depth and lived experience of oneness broaden and deepen. It is, in a way, a recovery, or a remembering, or a rediscovery of that which was seemingly lost to the self. For all along the self had been—through every step of the journey, from the very rudimentary and fundamental first density, to that density to which words fail completely, the seventh density—always One, always the Creator playing a game of forgetting itself and having the great joy and honor of charting a pathway toward this rediscovery, or as this instrument was describing it earlier, coming home… whereby aspects of the self which were hidden or out of view are reintegrated back into the heart, into the increasingly unified and crystallized and one-pointed being; such that the sense of self continues to expand and expand and expand to include not only all aspects within the mind/body/spirit complex, but all entities of that focal point of awareness’s group or planet, and indeed, ultimately, universe itself; such that all things are seen and recognized as self, as One.

May we ask if there is a follow up to this question? We are those of Q’uo.

Thank you for this comprehensive response and putting it into the context of refamiliarizing me with the idea of Atman. You’ve given me much to consider, and I appreciate it so very much. Thank you.

And we thank you, our sister. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. In session 68 of the Ra contact, we learned that a couple of days before, Carla was slipping into a trance in order to contact Ra and had to be saved by Latwii from the Orion entity which was waiting to snatch her spirit and bring about the end of her life.2 Why did this happen: because she called on Ra at the wrong time without the right configuration and protection?

My question is whether we, who are students of the Law of One and trying to be adepts, can also be subject to greetings by negative entities if we have the wrong thought at the wrong time. I realize we are not calling on Ra, and we aren’t Carla, but maybe we aren’t worthy of this level of attention. But in our everyday life, if we call on you Q’uo, or our guides or other positive entities at the wrong time, can we also get into trouble? How do we protect or prepare ourselves beforehand?

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you for this query, our brother. Indeed, you are right to note the singular nature of [the Ra contact] experience. For it is not one that will, in all probability, be replicated in your or virtually any other entity’s journey upon your world. It may be likened unto the rigors and precise parameters of attempting to leave, or rather escape your orbit in order to enter into space, a venture that has much less margin for error. And thus its prerequisites must be precise and fulfilled in order to be undertaken safely and successfully.

However, as to the broader question of negative greeting, indeed, this is the case for all entities polarizing positively, whether or not they are involved in channeling or are calling upon higher beings. It is baked into the fabric of third density that all progress upward in seeking the Creator and activating the higher chakras and working with greater awareness alerts those of the negative path that a challenge may be offered to the entity seeking to progress. This, from one perspective, may seem to be unfortunate for the entity on the receiving end of the negative greeting due to the challenge or pain or hardship or intensification of catalyst that it brings.

But we would ask you, our friends, to zoom out for a moment to see what, from the larger perspective, is not only the benign but beneficial aspect of negative greeting, in that it allows the progress to be tested, to be challenged in order to give the positively polarizing entity the opportunity to declare themselves—to own, shall we say, their movement and their choices and their intentions.

This test or challenge or friction or pushback gives the entity the opportunity to release their previous understanding or modality, to move through the difficulty that they may become that which they seek. And this test requires of the positive entity that they live those values that they seek; that is for the entity seeking on a positive path, that they act and be loving, that they open their heart and practice acceptance.

For in your illusion, where your perception is quite limited and it is easy to believe about the self that which is not quite true, one can operate from a position of pretense. Or perhaps even sincerely giving lip service to positive ideals, but not fully embodying them, perhaps and most likely due to an unconscious awareness of the shadow within oneself, of the judgments that the self holds towards others, of the various mental mechanisms within the mind that keep the awareness separate from others. There are countless ways that this operates.

The negative greeting in this circumstance targets the inner blockages or imbalances or shadow side, bringing the self’s attention to these aspects of the self as the work of the highlighter so that the self may become aware of that which is unintegrated or unloved or unprocessed or unhealed; and thus diligently bring their attention to this catalyst that they may reveal its gifts for the self, that the self may become more whole and grow upon this journey.

You use the adjective “wrong,” as in wrong thought and wrong time. Certainly, in certain practices such as that of the white magic, timing, correct performance of ritual, and so forth, are important, as with any other practice that has high stakes. But in the general course of the incarnational journey, this notion of wrong versus right may be a less helpful metric for the self. Certainly, there is that which is wrong for the self and that which is felt to be right. But a more helpful metric may be that of those thoughts or actions or mindsets that are loving versus those that are not loving, or, those that are of the light and those that are not, and so forth.

To conclude our response, whatever the case may be, we would encourage the positive seeker to, insofar as is possible, move forward fearlessly. To not let the mind be saddled with worry or fear or paranoia about challenges or threats or lurking around any corners, be they of the mind or of the life’s landscape. For this fear is itself a grand invitation and opening for those of the negative polarity to interact with the positive entity and to seed, often very subtly so, thoughts within the mind and energy field that lead to separation, that lead to isolation, that lead to further misapprehension of the moment, of the self and of other-selves.

Which is to say, exercise faith, our friends.

Is there a follow up to this query? We are those of Q’uo.

No, thank you, Q’uo. That was, that was wonderful. Thank you.

And we thank you, our brother. Is there a final question through which we may speak through this instrument? We are Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo. I have a question from T. He says: “In Dr. Michael Newton’s book Destiny of Souls, he references levels of spiritual advancements, two through five. After these are levels six through nine, which refer to ascending masters. Do these correspond, in some fashion, to densities, as described in The Law of One? If not, how and why are there differences? Thank you for any clarification Q’uo can provide.”

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, our brother, for this question. As the third-density being moves upward in their journey through the various layers and sublayers and sub-sublayers, and so on, within the band of reality that is the third density, there is a progression through lessons and expanded awareness that have echoes with, and corollaries to, the higher densities, the fourth and fifth and so on. But in our understanding, this particular system of gradation and nomenclature applied to these beings in this work is that which this author, in working with those of the inner planes, has devised, and is not necessarily that of working through the higher densities.

Rather, these are differentiations of progress within the time/space or inner planes realms of your third-density experience. For there is, even within this one density, a great spectrum of experience, including those which you have identified in your question. And as the entity moves forward, whether in the incarnational experience or those who live strictly within the inner planes, they also move upward and with accompanying greater awareness and greater ability, greater capacity to channel the love and the light of the One Creator and express mastery as well in their experience of their own native realm.

At this time, we would transfer our contact to the instrument known as Jim. We are those known to you as Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and once again with this instrument. We would ask if there is another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. I have a question from a reader abroad who has had a unique experience, and in brief, I will share this experience and then ask their question. They, last month, went to work one day, and their day ended with them in the hospital. Yet they emerged recognized as a hero by many, having saved lives by stopping an assailant armed with a knife on a train that made an unscheduled stop. This story was publicized around the world, and this individual asks: “Because of my understanding of the Law of One, I wonder if you can help me ask our brothers of light, Q’uo, during a session, why this happened? It seemed like a mission, a humble message of love. Did our planet itself feel that love? Even in the midst of danger, I did not hate the attacker. Instead, I sent him love while protecting others and myself.“

I am Q’uo and aware of the query, my brother. We would say to you that because of your great desire to be of service to others that you chose pre-incarnatively, you chose to do whatever was necessary at the moment, great or small—many services, a few services today and tomorrow—so when the attacker was on the train that you were on, the chance to serve presented itself in a way that it had never done for you before. And you rose to the occasion without any hate, but only love, and you saved a life that it cost you an injury to your physical vehicle. And we say to you that the entire creation rang with joy. Not only that you saved a life, but there was no hate in your heart.

This is a service that is of the highest order, for you risked your life for another. You are in miniature, the one known as Jesus the Christ, who gave his life that we may all know that life does not end, we are all eternal beings. But that is not so well known in the third-density illusion by the majority of your entities. So you moved as you could move, the most helpful, inspirational, full of love and light, and we thank you, our brother, for your gift of your love and light.

Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. I have a question regarding service and how one might better organize their life towards service. In that I’m wondering about how helpful or how much service to others one can accomplish, or how much one should emphasize their service to others, in terms of service to one other-self versus say, when one operates out of a sense of love in trying to have opportunities of inspiring fellow seekers, through, say, a written book, or through, say, such media where one may be approaching many people in a more scattershot methodology, if that makes sense. So, from service of one person to service in a group setting, such as this, versus or in addition to larger work that may inspire others. Does that make sense, Q’uo?

I am Q’uo, my brother, and yes, you do make sense. We would suggest that each seeker of truth, such as yourself, who wishes to be of service, use whatever talents that they have. Whether it is writing a book; conducting zoom meets with large groups of people; walking down the street and seeing a child walking alone, going home and yet, no one helping the child, walking with the child and taking it home; seeing someone to the grocery store has dropped their wallet, picking it up, giving it to them—service opportunities surround you. It is a world full of opportunities to serve. Use your discrimination, use your desire, use the opportunity, whenever it presents itself to serve as you are called to serve. Every moment that you exist with the desire to serve, you serve because you are ready to serve.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you. That was very beneficial. I appreciate it. Thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. How does one resolve the conflict in the heart when there are so many seemingly opposing forces? It’s a time of dynamic cataclysm with much to lose, much to gain, involved in this catalyst of opening the heart. How is one, does one… is time a factor in bringing the light to obscurity? What are the remedies to ending the suffering of the heart?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my sister. We would suggest that to answer your own query, you retire to the state of meditation. And you look at the heart of your problem to determine how to serve the heart of others. And see this as your lifelong question. Not of a moment, but of every moment that you live. And then when you have meditated to your satisfaction, then move through your daily round of activities with this desire to serve from your heart the best of your ability, and use your intuition to determine what services are presenting themselves to you. For the chance to serve is all around you. You swim in a sea of opportunities to serve.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Thank you, Q’uo. No further query.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. How important is it to form positively oriented social memory complexes at this time on the earth? And why is it, if so, why is it important?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. Forming social memory complexes is the work of third density3 so that various portions of the One Infinite Creator may bind themselves together by the love of the One Infinite Creator, and see the Creator and everyone around them. So that they may help the Creator to know Itself in a more advanced form, what you call, a social memory complex.

And we would suggest at this time that there is a social memory complex forming upon your planet, formed of seekers such as gathered here today. All over the planet, there are these types of seekers that are beginning the foundation stones, shall we say, of the fourth density of love and understanding and will move forward as individuals when they drop their bodies and walk into the light of the fourth density.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

[Pause]

I am Q’uo, and we thank each of you, whether you asked a query or not, for blending your energies of love and light with each other. These energies are seen throughout the creation. As all groups such as this create light and love that moves in symphony and synchronicity with the One Infinite Creator.

We thank you for your beingness, for your love, for your light, and at this time, we shall take our leave of this group, thanking each as always for being a portion of the Creator that helps each other portion of the Creator to know Itself as the Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.

From the Ātman_(Hinduism) article on Wikipedia: “Ātman in Hinduism is the true, innermost essence or self of a living being, conceived as eternal and unchanging. Atman is conceptually closely related to the individual self, Jīvātman, which persists across multiple bodies and lifetimes, but different from the self-idea or ego, the emotional aspect of the mind, and the bodily or natural aspects. The term is often translated as soul, but is better translated as ‘Self’ or essence.” ↩

For more about the attempt to steal Carla’s soul away to negative time/space, see #68.4-18, #69.3-21, #70.6-8, #70.14-23, #71.14, #72.7-8, #72.14-15. Along with the chapter “Ra Contact: The Narrow-Band Beam” in A Concept Guide. ↩

Technically or at least statistically it is the work of fourth density, according to Ra. ↩

