(R channeling)

[I am Hatonn.]… clear his mind, and not to analyze what is being said. I will continue, on the subject of desire. As I was saying, we cannot overemphasize the need to realize the truth that one only experiences what one desires. We realize this is a completely different way of thinking, on your planet, but it is necessary that you realize this.

When you are meditating, when you are in a receptive state, your mind is being programmed. The things that you program your mind [with] are things that will manifest, for you program your mind with the things that you desire. In other words, whatever you sow in the fertile fields of the mind, you also reap in the physical manifestation. The people of your planet are constantly programming themselves into undesirable experiences. This is completely unnecessary. It is ignorance.

It is difficult to fully comprehend the power that a man has at his use through his desire.

I will leave this instrument at this time. I am Hatonn. Adonai.

[The following are from "Voices of the Confederation":]

We are here to help those of this planet who would help themselves and, by doing this, would help others. Each of you will be a channel of communication for the understanding of the truth of the creation that we bring to the people of this planet.

It is, I am afraid, a difficult thing to give to all of the people of this planet that which they desire. However, at this time, there are many who are on the brink of understanding. It is only necessary that they be given that which they desire and this is our duty to those of whom we speak. And this will be your service, to aid us in bringing to them that which they desire: An understanding of the true workings and principles of the Creation.

It will, however, require some effort. For it is not easy to communicate all the levels of understanding that exist at present on this planet. And, for this reason, it is necessary to have many channels such as yourself, so that each individual who is seeking will be able to receive exactly what he seeks. There are many questions that will be asked you in the future. And in order to answer these questions, it is necessary that each of you be prepared. And this will require effort. It is not a simple task to raise the understanding of a large number of those who will shortly be seeking understanding. But, with effort and diligence, it will be accomplished.

We realize that it is difficult to find time for sufficient meditation in order to avail yourself to the understanding that is necessary for the task that you are to perform. But it is possible to avail yourself in meditation at various times during the day when meditation of what you might call a formal nature, such as you now indulge in, is not possible. This instrument has learned to utilize many portions of his day to clear his mind of the thoughts generated by the illusion that surrounds him and to become at one with the creative consciousness that is in all of us. This we suggest doing in addition to the type of meditation in which you now engage, for if you are to understand, it is important to spend time each day in the process of meditation.

We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here for one purpose and one purpose alone. We are here to bring truth to those that seek it. But, my friends, it is necessary that an individual seek truth, if he is to find it. This is a natural principle of this Creation, for it was within the original Thought that created us that we should have exactly what we desire. For this reason, it is necessary to desire to return to the original Thought of love and unity in order to return.

Concern yourselves, therefore, with those who seek. For they are the ones we are here to serve. It would be a direct violation of the principles of creation to attempt to serve those of your planet who do not seek our service. We can advertise our services to some limited extent. But it is not possible for us to impress upon any individual at any time a service that is not sought. For this reason, our mission is wrought with several problems. [One is] the problem of communicating with those of your people who seek our service, while not disturbing to an overt extent those who do not seek.

For this reason, we act as we do now, using those of you who seek this understanding and also seek to serve others who would seek the understanding. The degree of your service will depend upon the degree of your seeking. This is always the way.

We are very privileged to be able to work with you. And your service in many ways is much greater than ours. For you must work within conditions that are much more difficult than those within which we now work, However, each of you will be successful in your efforts to serve your fellow man. For this is what you seek. And, as I have stated earlier, it has been provided for by our Creator that if an individual seeks anything, this is what he shall find. And if he seeks to be of service to his fellow man, this he shall surely accomplish.

