Hatonn: All that we say of service, of confidence, of peace, of strength, and of courage, has as its wellspring the great power and creative energy of that One Original Thought, which binds us all in the great warmth with the love of the Creator.

(Carla channeling)

[I am Hatonn], and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our Infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with each of you this evening. And we especially greet the one known as H, whose presence is old within this group, but whose physical vehicle enters this domicile for all too few meetings. It is a great joy to blend our vibrations with this entity’s.

We ask your consideration, your continuation of tuning this evening, as we must tread very carefully, as there is some attempted interference. However, we have a strong group. We were attempting to begin this contact through the instrument known as D, and will again attempt to do so at a later time, as you might say.

How pleasant it is, my friends, to enter the dwelling place of the all mighty, and to drink from the fountains that spring from the river of love. A bounty is [inaudible]. What great cause for thanksgiving, to experience rest in what seems to be the dwelling place of the Father. For each has a desire in the heart to enter into that courtyard and to sing the praises of the One Creator. And each would give all in order to accomplish this task.

But my friends, if your soul has a desire and a longing to dwell within the courtyard of the One Creator, that desire brings that courtyard to you. There are many times, my friends, when even the most single-minded and faithful of seekers is wont to turn aside in discouragement and to rest upon a stone of discontent. And to say, “Why is my time not yet? And why is my [inaudible]?” And if we say to you, my friends, that your work is well begun, that each of you dwells at this very moment, and at all moments, in the courtyard of the all mighty.

The dancer, my friends, spirals and spins. And the music weaves a tapestry about the dancer. And to the audience, it does not seem that there is purposeful movement; for to the audience, the dance is enchantment, the perfection sprung from nothing. Yet, to the dancer, my friends, the dance was the end result of endless days and weeks of exercise, discipline, and practice. Each movement, each attitude of the hand, each arch of the spine, and each cat step of the delicate kind, as it flows past in rhythmic rapidity, has been planned and practiced [inaudible], and the spontaneity is at heart envisioned.

Within this illusion which you call the third density, you sit in an audience and watch the dance of your life, and you marvel at the changing at the changing tones and subtle colorations of music and dance in front of you. But you yourself, before incarnation, have planned this dance. Yet this is no bondage to predestination, for that which you give to the motion is emotion. And with that emotion, the steps are the steps on one [inaudible].

Your faculty of joy, your faculty of expressing love, radiance of the infinite love of the Creator, is that great expression of your freedom with which no plan can [inaudible]. Thus, my friends, it behooves you to look at two facets of your incarnation as you seek to accentuate the progress of your seeking. It is well to plumb the depths of the dance, and to practice and perfect those steps, those lessons, that you are here to learn and to perform to perfection.

But, my friends, even more so is it well that in each moment, you seek that which free will offers you: your state of mind, your state of being, your polarity, your will. In all these things, my friends, you are good [inaudible] with great strength. It is as though there were a great host of those who [inaudible] dwelling from the outside of many, many a door, waiting for your hand, waiting for your [inaudible]. But, my friends, no positive entity can open that door alone. You must turn the handle. Open the door. Open that heart of being in love to the positive energies of the universe. This is your free will, also.

At this time, we would again condition and attempt to establish a clear transfer of contact with the one known as Don. I am Hatonn.

[Pause]

I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument. The one known as Don does not wish to be used as an instrument. Therefore, we shall close to this instrument. As always, we wish to bring to the forefront the concept of our fallibility. For all words which we say are only words, and their use is limited to that which may be helpful to the individual seeker.

We are messengers of one simple thought¬–a primal and universal thought. A thought which you have in your group called [inaudible]. We come to your peoples to offer this one thought, to encourage your peoples to seek this one original thought, under the most beneficial circumstances which can possibly be availed. That is of course, my friends, the meditative state.

All that we say of service, of confidence, of peace, of strength, and of courage, has as its wellspring the great power and creative energy of that One Original Thought, which binds us all in the great warmth with the love of the Creator.

We thank you for listening once again to our simple words. We are aware that, to this group, there is little possibility of offering information upon the subject of [inaudible] which has not already been heard. But we are also aware that this group still calls for the solace and the strength and the inspiration which comes from that all-encompassing concept. And so, it is our greatest privilege to share it with you, as brothers and sisters in an infinite universe.

In that infinity of love and light, we leave you at this time. I am known to you as Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

(Jim channeling)

I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our Infinite Creator. It is our privilege, once again, to be asked to join your group to blend our vibrations with yours in the capacity of attempting to answer your queries. As always, we feel a great joy to be able to provide this service, for we learn much about the ways of your people and therefore the ways in which the Creator might be known as we blend our vibrations with yours. Therefore, let us ask if there might be a question that we could attempt to answer at this time.

I have a question. If you wouldn’t mind looking into my mind and tell me if this a proper time to discuss my dream. I think if you wouldn’t mind probing. I’m afraid really to say a great deal because of some of our friends that are around.

I am Latwii, and I am aware, my sister, of your query and your concern. We do not feel it proper to invade another’s mind in order to sift the thoughts and make determination as to their propriety. But may suggest in general that as you gather together in the name of the One Creator in service-to-others polarity, that you may feel quire free to discuss those concerns that have meaning for you, and to know that at each moment as you seek to be of service to others, you provide in that seeking your own protection as you praise the Creator for the opportunity to seek and to know the truth. Therefore, my sister, please feel at ease and be aware that your own joy and service is your protection.

May we answer your questions at this time?

Okay. A few years ago, you were not speaking to this group, but some of the brothers had answered a problem I was having with a particular dream that was reoccurring. There was a problem of–to put it shortly–it seemed that I was walking through a wall to get to another dimension instead of opening the door. And I was having a great deal spiritual and physical–in this physical density–distress. And I ceased¬–vocally ceased up–to stop having these dreams when it involved one of my children. I’m not sure if I’m making myself clear. But anyway, this happened a few years ago. I am now asking if it would be appropriate now in my path to pick up where I left off, if I’m able now to open the door instead of walk through the wall? Or if I have passed that point–if I have already opened the door? Or if it would be beneficial to go back to that point of trying to get to the next dimension that I was trying to get to but seemed to have trouble?

I am Latwii, and I am aware, my sister, of your query. We again find that there is the difficulty of the infringement when information is given that suggests to the seeker that one path is preferable over another at such and such a time. For, my sister, it is the task of each entity which inhabits your illusion to look about the self and to look within the self, and to take that which is seen and that which is sought, and make of this a fabric of the being. And then, to clothe the self in that simple fabric as the pilgrim on the journey. For another entity to look at the elements of another’s life and to make the decision as to which portions should be pursued at one time or another, is to take that opportunity or the discernment from the seeker and to replace it with a crutch. Thus, the seeker hobbles hither and yon according to the dictates of a voice from without, and does not seek as purely as possible the inner voice, which always calls to the conscious mind.

We can look at that which you describe and see you have in what you call your past investigated those areas of your being, which at those times, as you call them, were most appropriate to investigate. We can see the difficulties which you encounter. We can see the responses which you felt necessary to make. We look now upon the array of possibilities that presents itself to you at this time, and can only assure you that as ye seek, so shall ye find. And fear not the mistake, for it is not possible to make it. You will learn as you yearn, and you will travel that path which is the most beneficial for your growth at this time. We do not mean to offer the suggestion likely that to seek always within your being is the most profitable, shall we say, path that can be followed. We do not mean to make light in any respect in the seeking which you have already undertaken, but can only remind the seeker that words such as ours are a mere pittance when compared to the guidance you shall find within your being.

May we answer you further, my sister?

Yeah, one–just a curiosity kind of question. When we leave this density, do we go on back to our own planet? Or at that–at the same place and time that we left to come here? Or do we also graduate to another density?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. For those entities which are commonly known among your seekers as wanderers, there are as many possibilities as there are wanderers. For many of those lighted beings who have chosen to forget their heritage [so] that others might remember theirs, there is often a great history of beingness within this third-density illusion. Many have come for many, many incarnations. It has been their decision to offer themselves in this particular type of service until the planet has been birthed, shall we say, into the fourth density. Others have come more recently, as you might say–within the last major cycle, and even those times within your past century. And some have come to this illusion for the first time within the last few decades, as you reckon time.

Each has made a choice which is an agreement. Each agreement has been approved by those guardians which watch over your planet. When the agreement and the honor have been fulfilled, then the entity shall return to its own density and home planet, as you have called it. Therefore, it cannot be said for any one entity what shall occur when it passes from this illusion.

May we answer you further, my sister?

No, accept I–that I just really had thought to you, this–as you’re vocally here–something that’s really bothered–well, not bothered me. But if [it] keeps cropping up in my curiosity–that I am an experiment. I don’t want any kind of comment because you can’t comment on it without infringing. But I just wanted to say that. And also, to send a lot of love and light to the people who are around me right now and wish them well, but that I really do not need their services. But I do thank you, Latwii.

I am Latwii and shall offer but one brief comment, and that being: each entity from whatever source is an experiment, for is there any other but one source? And does not that source attempt to increase the experience of itself through those situations known as experiments? For unity to be anything other than unity, there must be the experiment. And the great experiment which has allowed the illusion which you inhabit to exist has also allowed the expression of the One Creator in the polarities which each of you illustrate. And though some illustrate one polarity in a purer fashion than another, yet is there any other than the One Creator? Therefore, my friends, bless and love and praise that One Creator in each portion as you are greeted.

Is there another question at this time?

I would just like a comment, if you wouldn’t mind, coming to touch me for a minute. If I [inaudible].

I am Latwii, and I am with you, my sister, in love and in light this night and always.

Thank you, my dear.

I am Latwii. Our gratitude to you is boundless. Is there another question at this time?

I just have a question which you might not even be able to comment on. If the group moves to a new location, I’ve always felt that it’s valuable for me personally to have an open public meeting once a week so that any bozo that had read enough material to know that they were interested in what you had to say could give access to. Could you comment on that?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. We see that each seeker, bozo or otherwise, is quite aware of its own needs. Our sister with the question is no exception.

May we anything further, my sister?

When did the confederation start getting into puzzles?

I am Latwii. We have long been interested in the puzzle and the mystery of being, and seek with each in this room to penetrate the puzzles and the mysteries which compose each portion of the creation. We find the riddle a most helpful instrument for instruction, for it only appears to originate from outside the seeker.

May we answer you further, my sister?

No. Thank you.

I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?

I’m just curious if you could briefly describe the scenario that’s going on around here, just out of curiosity? I’m very serious. I’d like to know what exactly all of those that are in service to others are doing with the ones that are service to self right now. I’d like to see a kind of cosmic picture of what’s going on right now.

I am Latwii, and I’m aware of your query, my sister. My sister, it is only within your illusion that the scenario takes on a complex of actions, for within your illusion there is the forgetting, and there is the struggle to remember. As an entity remembers that it wishes to be of service upon one path or another, then there is the purification of that service and that path.

[Tape one ends]

(Jim channeling)

I am Latwii, and I am with this instrument once again. To continue, for those who have made this great choice and who have made harvest upon harvest, shall we say, and who have past the illusion of forgetting and have entered other lessons, there is the purifying of the service that has been chosen for the Confederation of Planets in Service of the Infinite Creator. There is the simple sending of love and light to all of creation. This, a general service, has many aspects, as you are aware. At this time upon your planet, there is a great effort to aid each entity which calls for the service of knowing and experiencing the love and light of the One Creator.

As the entity seeks, there is the answer given in whatever means may be understood by the entity seeking, and by whatever means does not infringe upon that entity’s free will. Therefore, it may be simply said that we of the Confederation of Planets only amplify that which is. Each seeker, therefore, is part of that which is. And as we answer the call of that which is, we increase the beingness of that which is – the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.

May we answer you further, my sister?

No. That’s fine.

I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?

[Pause]

Yeah, how are you all tonight?

[Laughter]

I am Latwii, and we may say that our experience of the infinite mystery of creation expands in each moment into a greater understanding and into a greater yearning to understand yet further. The joy and the mystery of all creation is that which sustains our being. To share even a small portion of that joy and mystery with seekers such as yourselves amplifies our beingness. And for the service which you provide us, we cannot thank you enough.

May we answer you further, my sister?

No. That’s fine.

I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?

[Pause]

I am Latwii. Again, my friends, it has been our great honor and privilege to be asked to join our vibrations with yours this evening. We are most appreciative at each opportunity to do so. We remind each entity present that a simple request for our presence is all that is necessary for us to join you in joy, in love, and in light. Do not fear that the time which you have to ask for our presence is short or too short to ask. For there is an infinity of time in each moment, and it is our great joy to be with you throughout that infinity of time, as you call it.

We leave you now in the infinity of love and light of the One Infinite Creator. Be at peace, my friends. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.

