Hatonn: Your peoples are fascinated by things and wonders. They gaze at the phenomenon. They stare at the physical being. But how many among your peoples, my friends, out of a clean, clear, and pure hear, have given to just a few the healing power of love. My friends, we ask you to be on fire with that love. And then we ask that you realize that the greatest gift that you can give with that fire is to let people find your light. Let them come to you. And when they do, let the Creator shine upon them with such a blaze that your joy is boundless.

(D channeling)

[I am Hatonn.] I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. Advice which is not asked is often not helpful. Each person has their own path to follow. Unsolicited advice very often temporarily throws a person off of their busy made pace. When one is asked advice, very often, it is helpful to give to the best of your ability. But unasked for advice can slow the person on their path. Sometimes it is better if they look inward to solve their problems. Then only if they ask for help, would we help them on their way. Sometimes people’s paths cross, and they go for a while down the same lane. But very often, it will veer to one direction, and they will separate. On occasion they will again turn, but often they go a different way. It is very difficult to understand another’s pattern. Be very careful when you give advice.

I will leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.

(C channeling)

I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. It is again with great joy [that] we are among you this evening. We feel the love that is shared so extensively among the ones gathered here in the seeking of the One Creator and the seeking of all. We are with you in joy and in pleasure to share our simple message. We do not have the means to communicate with most people on your planet in a direct contact. So, as you know, we use the means of the vocal channel. It is through this means that we convey our simple message of love and light of the One Creator and express the thought that all, indeed, are one in that love and light. To express this love takes so little of an actual action. A thought, a word, a small deed can express the Creator’s love in great intensity, if one is open to seeing that love. The seeking of the Original Thought is deep within all. Yet, there are a number of people on your planet’s surface still who do not realize they are seeking this Thought, seeking the love that will eventually bond all your peoples into one.

We are, therefore, trying in our small way to help your peoples accomplish this goal. It will be in a short time that those of your people who are ready for this transition will accomplish the oneness – in another step toward the oneness of the Creator. We are encouraging all of you, in your small ways, to share your simple message with those you feel are ready to hear the message in order to brighten their day, lighten their lives, to help them along their path, as you have been helped along yours from time to time by a kind word, a little love that was given to you with that ask… asking… We correct this instrument. Without asking anything in return of you. Love that is freely given.

We do not and would not advise anyone of their path. We can only encourage those who seek the One Creator, and this we gladly and willingly do. For in allowing us to share our simple messages with you, you do us a great service also. For we learn from you at the same time that you may learn a little from us and our very simple but loving messages. Again, we would like to express our great joy and great pleasure at being called among you this evening.

At this time, we would transfer to another instrument. I am known to you as Hatonn.

(Carla channeling)

I am Hatonn, and I will speak through this instrument. We continue through this instrument, greeting you as always in love and in light. How bright the possibilities are for each of you, my friends. And how eager each of you is to help others. It is a joy for us to see those working upon the path of service to others. For although we are only your brothers and sisters and very fallible, it is our opinion that this path is by far the swiftest and the most joyful path possible for any entity. Upon each mind, there may come many times the question: How can I do the work that I wish to do? How can I help as I wish to help those about me? How is it possible that I will be able to serve the One Infinite Creator by sharing joy and unity, when I myself am less than joyful and less than uniform from time to time?

Firstly, my friends, we would repeat that which we have spoken through another instrument. For in its repetition, you may perhaps perceive the importance in which we’ve placed this concept. To sow the seed when asked is your service – by thought, by word, and by deed. To pray for any outcome, to speak any word, or to offer any action to one who has not asked for aid is an infringement upon free will. In order to be of service then, refine your perceptions until you hear those who seek for pearls and recognize those who seek the dime store jewelry. You cannot help all entities except by the act of your being.

This brings us to our second point, my friends. Perhaps it has occurred to you that you wish very much to make of this incarnation a service to the One Creator, and you do not know how to proceed. Let us assure each, my friends, that there are services that you are performing now and which you shall be performing if you but listen to that voice within you. However, my friends, many are the times that the next phase of your service will wait until you have purified and harmonized and blessed that situation in which you find yourself at this particular moment. To move from where you are in your mind to the next place in which you shall be of service, it is necessary that you stand upon rock firmly and unquestioningly bathed in the harmony of love and light. Have you work to do then with a relationship? Have you inner work to complete? Have you forgiveness to undertake? Have you circumstances to balance in your perceptions until you can see them in perspective and love them? If this is so, my friends, set about this work. For that which is to come shall wait upon your readiness to leave the place wherein you are now experiencing the illusion. Once you have come into the balance with all about you, once there is harmony and love and thanksgiving between you and your kindred, seek inwardly, then, as it is written in your holy works: “Not my will but thine.”

Thirdly, we would point out that there is no great work unless all works are great. Do you wish to serve this planet? Very well, then. Do whatever is before you. To each has been given a certain amount of gift and burden – that is, each has been given that which is the potential service of what you call your lifetime. Whatever has been given to you, and whatever shall be given to you, cannot be judged upon the merits which are so prevalent among your peoples. Those who speak to multitudes and speak not from the heart do far, far less than the parent who speaks one word of utter love to the child, or the person who, with a full heart, who reaches out and opens the hand to the stranger. That which you have called Christ consciousness is infinite. If you are to speak to multitudes, therefore, it shall be done if you have prepared yourself. If the kingdom in your care is but one or two, it is as great as the greatest multitude.

Your peoples are fascinated by things and wonders. They gaze at the phenomenon. They stare at the physical being. But how many among your peoples, my friends, out of a clean, clear, and pure hear, have given to just a few the healing power of love. My friends, we ask you to be on fire with that love. And then we ask that you realize that the greatest gift that you can give with that fire is to let people find your light. Let them come to you. And when they do, let the Creator shine upon them with such a blaze that your joy is boundless.

Before you, my friends upon the path, is an endless amount of work. You may call it, as it is called in your holy words, the “denying of the self” and the “taking up of the cross.” But we say to you, my friends, there is nothing negative, nothing denying about that of which we speak or that of which the master known as Jesus. The burden that you bear is a light that can only be carried by those whose devotion and dedication to the One Infinite Creator is such that the life is turned over to that light, that the soul is opened to that love, and that human considerations that may restrict the shining of that light – the shyness, the nervousness, the lack of confidence – are simply left behind. What a gift you have to give, my friends. For you are in such a dark illusion. You carry light within you. Set that light high as a beacon within your being. And trust that that service which is yours will, by grace, come to you; and that you, by that same grace, shall be able to offer that which is asked – never, my friends, that which is not asked.

We feel within this group a great sense of the joy of which we speak, and pause at this time for a moment of thanksgiving and blessing and the sharing of the joy of love. I am Hatonn.

[Thirty-second pause]

I am again with this instrument. What a great privilege it is to blend our vibrations with you and to feel your presence as we hope that you have felt ours. As you do your work, my friends, in order to become ever better channels of love, know always that there is rock under your feet – that great rock of the silence within. For one Original Thought has created and made one not only your peoples but all of the creation. Within you is the fire that has birthed stars and the love that balances them in their rhythms throughout the infinite proscenium of creation. Seek you then that rock of meditation as frequently as you can. And if, by chance, you must be away from that rock by busyness, spend a few moments knowing and feeling that it is, as it has always been within you, nearer to you than your own heartbeat.

We would close this contract through the instrument know as K. I am Hatonn.

(K channeling)

I am Hatonn. To repeat, my friends, may all things come to you in the light and the love of the Infinite Creator. My friends, to stand and fall and in silence in the presence of the Infinite Creator, that all who serves the Infinite Creator, it serves all mankind to some degree. Words can attempt to express the majesty in all of the Infinite Creator. But words are totally inadequate, and silence many times is the act that renews and strengthens our service [inaudible]. We shall repeat what we have said many times to this group: when you want our vibration, you have but to ask. And when you have some problem in your life that you do not readily see the answer to, you have but to ask the Infinite Creator. Indeed, it has been a great joy to be in your midst tonight. And we leave you now in the light and the love of the Infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.

(D channeling)

I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. The holy book says, “the pure at heart shall see God.” The pure in heart are God. Their link with the Creator is greater than most. They can do nothing, and still your stillness radiates the love of God. Your thought fills the room with light. Your friendships are beautiful. They may not be do-ers, but they are be-ers. We send the message of God to people who will [inaudible] it. It is the soul’s [inaudible]. Many times, it accentuates what is within the soul. But many times, it doesn’t. Many of the pure in part… Excuse me. Many of the pure in heart are not do-ers. Sometimes they are a nun in a convent that prays for the world. Sometimes they are a herd on the hill. But they are so close to God that the world is better for their being. It is also said that by their fruits, you shall know them. Their thoughts and their fruits and the rules in which they abide have an inner peace. People who know them feel close to the Creator.

[Jim answers the ringing phone.]

The pure in heart should be the aim of all people. Some lucky ones find it easy, and they bring great beauty and great understanding and great love to all the people who are fortunate enough to be near them. The pure in heart are God.

I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.

(Jim channeling)

I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the life of the One Infinite Creator. We again find it a privilege to be asked to join your group this evening. We of Latwii have always found it a great joy to be able to blend our vibrations with this group. Again, it is our privilege to present ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer your queries. We remind each that our responses are the best possible treasures of our being which we can unearth for you, but we are not at all infallible. Therefore, with this disclaimer, may the questions then begin.

I have a totally unimportant question, but it was brought up to me by a teacher who teachers the fifth grade. And she was wondering out loud why so many young women in her class of 10 year-olds were really child-women – they had developed much earlier than the previous generation in her memory. She wondered why this was, and I wondered if there was a spiritually oriented reason or something having to do with the change in vibration.

[Tape one ends]

(Jim channeling)

…All children and share them in as pure a manner as possible without the hesitation. For whatever occurs – be it the momentary bliss, the joy, or the disharmony, tears, and anger – there is within each moment the possibility of the quickening of the pace of the journey.

May we answer you further, my brother?

No. I lost it. Thank you.

I am Latwii. We thank you my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, along this same line of thinking, my daughter is a teacher, and teachers are having and students are having a very difficult time these days. Is it possible, for instance, for me to imagine a classroom–for real–that light and love and joy, etc., fill the classroom? Does that effort on my part help the teacher and the students?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. To fill such a room of learning with the love and the light of the One Creator as manifested through the visualization of your intentions is much the same as to water the garden with the attention of the careful gardener who looks after each plant and who sees to the clearing of the weeds and the adding of the fertilizer. It may be said that the environment which you describe is much less overtly affected by the sending of love and light. For you cannot measure its effect as you can when you look upon a garden with its bounteous produce at the end of the season. But do not doubt, my sister, that your love and light have added to the enhancing of the awareness of each within the classroom of that love and light. For were it not there, their experience would be less.

May we answer you further, my sister?

No, thank you. That answered the question. I thought that was true, and yet when I rationalize, it seems pretty ridiculous. Let me push that just one little bit further. Does the sending of the love and the light help the teacher to be more creative in knowing what to do in stressful situations?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Though this is possible, such a specific type of enhancement of the experience is the work of what you might call the adept and is done, then, only in a situation in which it has been requested. For to specifically aid another who has not requested that specific aid is an infringement. To aid by sending love and light is the type of assistance which may be accepted if it is desired in any form by those to whom it is sent.

May we answer you further, my sister?

That answered the question. Thank you.

I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I picked up what I dropped before, and that was I wondered about how we should respond to what we perceive to be, say, somewhat precocious and negative behavior in our children, though it isn’t hurting anyone. Just in other words, behavior that, although no victim… there’s no victim, the behavior seems negative. I would like to know how we might cope with that without infringing on their free will?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my brother. First of all, may we say that you cannot make a mistake. But we realize what you seek is the most lovingly efficient manner of being of assistance to these the young entities. Therefore, we would say, when you find yourself responding within your being in one way or another with such a young entity according to its actions, allow yourself to express that which you feel, for it is catalyst which arises from within your being and does not arise by chance. This allows not only the potential for growth within the young entity with whom you relate, but also within your own being, so that as you reflect in solitude within yourself, you might further refine this perception which you have shared in the first form in which it appeared within your being. By this refining process do you then add to the potential for the young entity to learn. And do you not also add the reality of your being as a fragile and vulnerable entity? My friend, as you know, this is most important for each entity upon your planet to realize about each other. And this is most especially true with those young entities whose care has been placed within your being.

May we answer you further, my brother?

Not at this time. Thank you very much.

I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

[Thirty-second pause]

I am Latwii. We find a great and joyful piece among this group this evening. It is the nature of this group to be most full of the queries. And for each query, we are always most grateful. But this evening we find a certain joy in the great peace which exists within this group. We thank each entity for this offering, and we ask that each entity remember that such peace is always present and available. We now shall take our leave of this group, and remind each before we do so that our presence is always available, as well, for the asking. We are known to you as those of Latwii. We leave you now, my friends, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai, vasu borragus.

