Hatonn: There is always a question in the mind of one who seeks as to the most appropriate method of seeking. And because you in this group have heard so often of meditation, the questions about seeking are often centered upon how best to meditate. First, my friends, let us assure you that, as far as we know, there is no best way to meditate due to the unique and marvelous character of each entity in the creation. One of you may slip into meditation by simple conscious relaxation techniques, another by visualization of a rose, another by contemplation of a saying that is inspiring to you. There are as many ways as there are people. However, my friends, there are signposts along the way which can inform you as to the nature of your meditation.

(C channeling)

I am Laitos, and I am now with this instrument. We have been listening to the wonderous sound of your laughter. It is always good to laugh. Far too often peoples take yourselves too seriously and narrow your view to such a small screen that you miss much of the beauty from any of the feelings, all of which may aid you in your quest for awareness of the love and the light.

We would, if we may, take this opportunity to condition and to speak a few words to those of you who are new instruments. We would at this time attempt a few words through the one known as Morris. We will now transfer to this instrument. I am Laitos.

(Morris channeling)

I am Laitos. I am with this instrument. We are pleased to be here and to have the opportunity to work with new instruments. They have a great desire to serve, and this desire will make it much easier to channel these thoughts. We are now…

[Fifteen-second pause]

I am Laitos. I am with this instrument. We are having some difficulty. We will transfer this contact.

(C channeling)

I am Laitos. I am once again with this instrument. The one known as Morris is making good progress, to ensure him that our contact with him is good. We will now transfer this contact to the one known as Denny. I will attempt to speak a few words through this instrument. I am Laitos.

(Denny channeling)

I am Laitos and am with this instrument. We have the same contact with this instrument with much less difficulty as he is progressing in his ability to relax and receive our message. We have been conditioning this instrument for our messages for quite some time.

[Twenty-second pause]

We will now leave this instrument and relinquish the contact so that our Brothers of Hatonn may bring the message. I am Laitos, I leave you in the love and the light of our Infinite Creator. I am Laitos.

[Thirty-second pause]

(Carla channeling)

I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our Infinite Creator. It is a great privilege and pleasure to blend our vibrations with yours at this time. And as we sense there are questions in this group which are of a general enough nature for us to address generally, we shall do so.

There is always a question in the mind of one who seeks as to the most appropriate method of seeking. And because you in this group have heard so often of meditation, the questions about seeking are often centered upon how best to meditate. First, my friends, let us assure you that, as far as we know, there is no best way to meditate due to the unique and marvelous character of each entity in the creation. One of you may slip into meditation by simple conscious relaxation techniques, another by visualization of a rose, another by contemplation of a saying that is inspiring to you. There are as many ways as there are people. However, my friends, there are signposts along the way which can inform you as to the nature of your meditation.

If your meditation consists of your sitting in one position for a period of time, intending to meditate, but with your mind wandering almost ceaselessly, and no recognizable state of quiet achieved, then your meditation has very great but limited benefits. The benefits are great because of your intention and because of your effort. You will progress and realizations will come to you by this method of meditation.

There are somewhat deeper states, shall we say, of meditation which you may recognize when they are achieved. When you happen upon them, my friends, as a young child who first sees a flower strewn field and exclaims upon its beauty, you may be sitting in meditation and suddenly you will find what this instrument would call a sweetness and a richness within the heart and a peace that fills the mind. You have at this point reached a unity with the Original Thought that is great enough for you to feel and be practicing the presence of the Infinite Creator.

If in your meditation you seek this experience, your benefits from meditation shall be greater than if you remain upon the surface of meditation. For it is this basic experience of the infinite sweetness of the love of the Creator that you carry with you most easily into manifestation. Manifestations, my friends, are not easily accomplished by an entity working, even with the best intentions, on his own strength. Manifestations of love are far more successfully accomplished when contact is remembered with an infinite source of that which supplies all manifestations. You within the illusion will run completely out of the supply of what you call love, patience, kindness. It would be unnatural were it any other way. The Creator within you is a fountainhead of love, for this is the very thought which created all that is in manifestation.

Find your first contact with this consciousness, and you will find a new level to seek in meditation. From this level, my friends, you may go on to do many things. You may seek to lose the self in an ocean of infinite love, so that you cease being the person with a heart and a mind and become one with the Creator. In this mode, you become a creature almost incapable of judgment. There is no judgment of fellow beings or of yourself at this stage of meditation. This is a great healer of yourself and of others. And on those occasions, rare though they might be, when you are capable of reaching this particular configuration of mind, that concern which you may have brought into meditation is in contact with the greatest healing power in the universe.

We do not want to etch and draw and configure for you your expectations of meditation. They, like all else, vary with the individual. These two seed states, which in turn will provide many fruits, are those we wish to share with you.

It is worth noting, my friends, that we do encourage the judicious reading of any material that you may find to be metaphysically helpful. We do not suggest that you read in order to believe. We suggest that you read in order to ask. Belief cannot be found in our messages, in books, or in any speech or writing. Belief is a gift which is sometimes given to those who continue to ask. That is the key word, my friends. Ask and seek and desire to know the truth.

Whatever you think you know, whatever you think you believe, faith and belief itself will come to you as suddenly as a ray of sunshine after a storm, as the first bird singing at the dawn of day. Therefore, do not seek faith but wait for it. Seek to know the truth, but know that the seeking is a process in which there are no guarantees, but yet, in which all that there is to know, will eventually be discovered within your own being.

We greet each of you and thank you for seeking and continuing to seek. We praise all efforts among your peoples to seek, and we thank each who is of service by offering themselves as instruments for the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. I leave this group now, but for the moment. I am known to you as Hatonn. I leave you in the love and in the light of our Infinite Creator. I leave you as we seek together, for we are one. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

(Jim channeling)

I am Latwii and greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. It is our pleasure and privilege once again to join you in your meditation. We thank you for your invitation. As always, it is our honor to add what insight we can to your questioning minds. May we at this time therefore ask if there might be any questions which we could attempt to answer?

Yes. I know I’m talking about me, but I’m only asking for what information you give me in general. In dealing with others, especially my son, it seems as though I’m trying to gain control instead of interacting with or guiding, as I may. And it seems to feed upon itself. When the control is resisted, the urge to control seems to be that much greater. Could you say a few words about how to tone down this urge to control instead of guide?

I am Latwii and am aware of your query my brother. We would say, first of all, that this situation of which you speak is one which is common to a great many of your peoples, for the illusion about you seems at times to be in disarray. There are those choices which each makes which necessitate a moving through the illusion in such and such a manner, it would seem, in order to accomplish those things which are deemed important.

As you are aware, your illusion exists for but one purpose. And that purpose is not to help you move through it with ease, but the purpose is to teach you those lessons which you have come to learn. Therefore, each of you experiences in your daily lives those situations which seem to need the placing in order, which seem to need the focused attention of the self so that the self might accomplish the purpose which it has set before it. Quite frequently, one finds that the rest of the illusion is not so amenable to being put in order, shall we say, and seems to rebel against the ordering. But this is as it should be, my friends. For you are here to learn the concept of love in its broadest sense; that is, the acceptance of all of that is including, and most importantly, the acceptance of yourself.

If you see about you those things which seem to need controlling, see these things then as reflections of a portion of your inner being. Look within yourself to see that which has been reflected without yourself. Look and see what your bias in this particular area is – what is it that you think you desire? What is it, then, that you truly desire? What is the distance between these two points, my friends?

In your meditations, look at what you think you desire in the situation which needs control and look at that which you truly feel that you desire. See the balance point between these two extremes. Reconcile within yourself that your process of learning is as it should be. The difficulties have gained your attention. And now in meditation, you shall seek the balance so that the distortions which have caused the so-called problem might be balanced or might be accepted by your own being as part of your being. Therefore, throughout the experiences of your incarnation, you shall discover more and more finely tuned means of accepting yourself, which then shall lead to the acceptance of other selves and situations in which you find yourself at all times. May we answer you further my brother?

Yes. As I stated before, the need to control seems to feed upon itself. I know that when others try to control me, that I become like a wall – unmoving and unseeing. I fully realize that someone is trying to control. But then, instead of learning from that, it seems that I turn around and do it with that much more intensity to another. It becomes like a cycle. Is this just the lesson being held in front of oneself so that the self may look at it from various views?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my brother. The process of which you speak is one in which the lesson is, shall we say, fed back time and again for those engaged in the confrontation for control. This process continues until either the control is gained by one over the other, or until one or both learn to surrender. For control, my friends, is that concept which expresses the negative aspect of your illusion – that is, the separation of one from another. Surrender, on the other hand, expresses the positive aspect – that is, the surrendering of the self to the will of the Creator.

In such a situation, if one can realize, firstly, that it is an illusion in which you participate, and then seek within that illusion the lesson that is being made available, then one might see the opportunity to surrender the will of the self to the will of the Creator. Ask within your being, if you can gather the presence of mind to do so in such a situation, “Creator, what is Thy will?” If your seeking be pure, your inner self shall lead you in that path which reflects the lesson you have come to learn. May we answer you further, my brother?

No, thank you. Not at this moment.

I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?

I have a question. Could you give a little on the pros and, more likely, the cons of expecting something out of a situation?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. For my sister, we find that this query is a refinement of the query which we have just responded to in that, when one expects anything from any situation, one has some degree of control in motion: hoping that there shall be a certain outcome instead of placing the will and the desire at the Creator’s service.

To expect nothing and to accept everything is the path of the fool. But the fool, my sister, is one which has the complete trust in the power and the peace and the grace of the One Creator, and needs not look to any portion of the illusion for its sustenance. Therefore, the fool is freed to travel through the illusion and learn all lessons most rapidly, for there are no expectations to serve as blockages or hindrances in the learning. May we answer you further, my sister?

No, that was a very nice answer. Thank you.

I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?

Yes, just let me clear up one thing to see if I understand this. Let’s say I’m in a dilemma with any individual, and there’s disagreement. And I think you said that if I had the presence of mind to stop and say, “What is your will?” That I will know what to do or how to respond? Did I get that right?

I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my sister. We feel that you have a firm grasp of the concept which we have attempted to share. May we answer you in any further way?

No, that seems like a fairly simple solution, though, if we took time to do it.

I am Latwii. Indeed, my sister. If the peoples of your planet could but take the time from their harried schedules, that become more complex with each passing day, to look to the heart of their true desires, their lives would be immensely simplified. For each entity seeks to do the will of the Creator, and the will of the Creator is everywhere present. The will in your illusion is simply that each should learn to love each other. All of the hustle and bustle of your busy days and complex ways exist to teach this one simple lesson. May we ask if there is another question at this time?

I have a question. From the time I was very small, I’ve always felt that I converse with God. And now that my mind has expanded, I’m wondering who this entity is with whom I converse.

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. The child’s mind often perceives the truth the most clearly. Indeed, there is no other to converse with than that known as the Creator, or to some known as God. May we answer you further, my sister?

I have the weird feeling that I knew him before I was born. Do you think that was possible?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Each entity has always known the One Creator. Each entity in each incarnation forgets so that the lesson might be learned in evermore rich and varied fashions, thereby driving the lesson deeper and deeper within the heart of the being, until the entity discovers deep within the self that that knowledge of the Creator is the knowledge of the self. For all are One – each self is the Creator. May we answer you further, my sister?

Thank you. That answers the question.

I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?

Yes. I’ve been reading predictions this week of Nostradamus and some psychics, and they’re pretty dire. Can we expect these predictions to come about before harvest?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Many entities in the history of your planet have been able to achieve the visions which look into what you call the future.

[Tape one ends]

I am Latwii and am once again with this instrument. These entities have been able to pierce the veil of the illusion and to look at the collective progress of the peoples of your planet, and have been able to see the movement of energies, which appear as the visions of the future. Of course, there are many and diverse visions that have been seen – many seemingly mutually exclusive, shall we say. That is because your future is never completely fixed but is always flexible according to the choices that each of you make, as individuals, that all of you make as peoples.

There are, of course, difficulties at this time in the harvest of your planet, for many upon your planet have had great difficulty in learning the lessons of love. And many shall need another great span of what you call time in order to make another attempt at this learning. Therefore, the disharmonies which have been apparent throughout the history of your planet have reverberated to the very heart of your planetary entity. For your planet is indeed an entity, as is each in this room.

Therefore, the matching of the vibrations of the third density in the transition with the fourth density is a matching which is less than perfect, and in some cases quite inharmonious, and will result in those rending of portions of your planetary surface. My friends, that this shall occur in various ways is almost a certainty but is indeed quite unimportant. For it is merely the random effects of a difficult harvest, and each entity may be assured that the lessons which each has come to learn will be those factors which are most important in the harvesting. And no entity shall leave by any means of volcanic, earthquake, a typhoon or otherwise, until the opportunity to learn the lessons has been experienced to the fullest extent.

When these lessons have been learned or when the opportunity has been presented to its fullest extent, then it is time for the entity to move to another level, and no force may keep it here. Therefore, we would say to you that, though the various dire predictions may indeed be in motion at this time and continue so for a portion of what you call time, look to the heart of your being for those lessons which you seek to learn. The world about you shall support you in the way that is appropriate for the learning of these lessons, and no opportunity shall be lost. May we answer you further, my sister?

Then I’m assuming that I should go on as just one human being walking around on the planet rejoicing in the love of the Infinite Creator, and just take what comes as it comes without any concern about it. Is that right?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Again, we feel that you have a firm grasp of the concept which we are attempting to share. It might seem quite foolish to many people to practice such a concept. But when you look upon the scene now enacting itself upon the surface of your planet, from a distance of many millions of years and thousands of incarnations, the scene resolves itself as one of infinite perfection, in that the lessons of each entity are now finding the opportunities to be learned, as your planet passes, the last days of its cycle in the third density. Many have incarnated to learn these lessons and desperately wish to experience the catalysis necessary for their learning.

Each entity before incarnation saw the possibilities which awaited. That these possibilities in your present frame of reference may then have appeared quite different than they do now. And now you see earthquakes, rumors of wars, sickness, starvation, as the dire results of neglect, of separation, poverty and so forth.

Before the incarnation, an entity might see these same situations as the most appropriate means of learning the lessons that are left to learn so that graduation might be achieved. Indeed, my sister rejoice in the creation, for the creation exists so that you might move through it in joy and in peace and in praise. May we answer you further, my sister?

Yes, I think this is sort of a foolish question to ask, but this idea came up this afternoon in a group. This one individual said, I believe, “If in small groups of meditation, we could agree to prevent the atoms from exploding in an atomic bomb, that we could prevent nuclear warfare.” And it was a nice concept, but I wonder if it has any validity.

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, we feel this concept has merit, but to many its application might be quite varied and different from others’ application. The lessons of your density are the lessons of love. When enough of your peoples learn to love one another, then the entire creation sings and resounds with that harmony, and each atom rejoices and seeks to join more fully with each part of creation. Therefore, by whatever means is available to the entity; each entity might therefore send the love and light to the one creation in which your planet resides, to your planet itself, to each entity upon its surface, indeed into the self, and thereby assure the unification of all that is. May we answer you further, my sister?

Yes, let me get this right down to the nitty gritty of living. Let’s say I rejoice, and I praise the Creator in my apartment. Does this affect everything in my apartment – my plants, everybody who comes into my apartment, and every stick of furniture, and everything in my apartment? Does everything respond to my rejoicing?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, it is so. Even the caribou in the tundras of Alaska feel your joy. May we answer you further, my sister?

Lord, that’s overwhelming! That’s fantastic! No, I think that’s enough to last me for a little while.

I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?

Yes, have people been harvested individually in the last 100 years or so, or do they have to be harvested in large numbers?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, there have been but few individually harvested in the portion of time of which you speak. It is possible at any time in any cycle within your third-density illusion for an individually… we correct this instrument… for an individual who has consciously pursued the path of the adept to make contact with that which has been described as intelligent infinity, and thereby make available to the self the opportunity for the harvest.

Most entities upon the positive path, as you are aware, when they achieve this contact with intelligent infinity, choose to return and aid the fellow entities in a similar contact. Those upon the negative path most often choose to leave and to continue in service to self upon another fourth-density negative planet. It is at the end of the great cycle of your planet’s third density that each entity shall be harvested whether there has been contact with intelligent infinity or not. Some at this time will qualify themselves for remaining with your planet in its fourth-density positive conditions. Some will qualify themselves for moving on to a fourth-density negative planet. At this time, it appears that the great majority of your peoples will qualify for neither of these paths, and therefore must repeat the great cycle of learning now ending upon your planet, but repeated upon another third-density planet just beginning its first 25,000-year cycle. May we answer you further, my sister?

Has this planet had less harvestable entities than most planets?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, it has been the case with this planet, which you now inhabit, that many have had great difficulties in learning the lessons of love and in polarizing sufficiently in either the positive or negative sense to make the harvest. This is felt to be a result of the majority of the population of your planet, having itself come to this planet from other third-density planets, seeking the opportunity to repeat again the third density. There have been a great many sources for the current population of your planet ¬– sources located throughout the universe, as you know it. Therefore, the melding of these various influences has been less harmonious than upon a majority of third-density planets, and even a majority of third-density planets with a population composed primarily of those seeking a repetition of the third-density experience. May we answer you further, my sister?

No, that’s excellent.

I am Latwii. We are pleased to be of service. Is there another question at this time?

Yes, in one of Cayce’s readings he refers… he says in the latter part… I think I can get this just about accurate… In the latter part of this century, that a light will appear in a cloud, similar… a light, as a light appeared in the past. How can we… How can I understand that? What does he mean?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. The one known as Edgar was reading a record which your peoples refer to most frequently as the Akashic Records. This is the collective consciousness of the peoples of your planet. And as with such a consciousness, there is seen by those who have the psychic ability various possibilities for what you call your future. The one known as Edgar saw many vortices of energy.

The vortices… we correct this instrument… the vortex of energy which you now speak of is one which may be taken in many different ways, but which can be seen as the coming of the light, ever brighter, as the fourth-density experience increases upon your planet, and the entities upon its surface obtain greater degrees of harmony and shine this light within their beings, so that indeed, beacons of light begin to appear in various places upon the surface of your planet and light the way for those who still exist within the darkness. May we answer you further, my sister?

No, that answers my question. Thank you.

I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?

Since no one has another question, I would like to ask one. Where would a man such as Gandhi go after his death?

I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Many are the entities upon your planet who perform great services, such as did the one known to your peoples as Gandhi. An entity during its incarnation attempts those lessons which will lead to the graduation. An entity, therefore, may find that there is the need for a great service in order to attempt the learning of the lessons for graduation. Another entity may find that the attempt must be focused in another manner upon another level.

The entity known to you as Gandhi was an entity which had already achieved its a graduation, shall we say, within another density and has proceeded to remain within the inner planes of this particular planet so that guidance may be given to many of those who were under its care during its incarnation. This entity shall return to its origins when this cycle is… we correct this instrument… when the cycle is appropriately completed for this planet. May we answer you further, my sister?

So, am I to understand that he has not gone on to the fourth density, but is helping the third density?

I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister.

Thank you.

We thank you. Is there another question at this time?

[Thirty-second pause]

I am Latwii. We have, as always, been most honored to be able to blend our vibrations with those of this group. We remind each that a simple request for our presence in your meditations is all that is necessary for us to join you. We look forward to each blending of vibrations. We thank each entity for being open to our contact and for bringing with you the queries which enable us to express the love and light of the One Infinite Creator. We leave you now in that love and light, rejoicing and praising the One Creator. I am Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

