Topics: Effort vs results in spiritual seeking; the lifespan of pets; forgetting dreams; astrocartography; the founders of Baha’i; witnessing suffering; spiritual considerations in building a house; trusting intuition; the third spiral of the pyramid; the Elder Race; thought-forms and positive energy transfer.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. It is our honor to greet each of you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are happy to be called to your group today. We have always enjoyed the interaction with spiritual seekers of truth such as are gathered here this afternoon, for in this way of our interaction together we hope to be of service to you, and we in our own way move forward on our own spiritual path of service to others.

We would ask that you consider the responses that we give to your queries with a discriminating mind so that you might determine for yourself which portions of our responses, which words and concepts are helpful to you; and if there are any that are not, that you may discard those without a second thought. If you would do this favor for us, then we may speak more freely, knowing that you will use your discrimination with every word and concept that we speak.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Yes, I have a question. This question has been broached before. I know I’ve read it in various channelings, but there’s, if you attempt to follow this path, and you don’t feel like you’re really being successful, which I don’t know what that means, but I guess, and I’ve always heard from the channelings that it’s not the results so much as it is the attempt to continue seeking. And I just wonder sometimes if maybe I don’t use that as an excuse. I know, okay, I’m not making any progress but I’m sure pluggin’ away. And I would just like to have you reiterate what is probably already been said, but anything new that you could add to that, I’d appreciate it.

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. This is a query that you share with many spiritual seekers of truth, who desire with all their hearts, and intend with all their mind, and put forth every effort of their being to travel the spiritual journey. And in this traveling, there is the hope, the expectation that there will be a result that you can point to, that you can feel, that you can express, that lets you know that you have been successful.

But, my friend, we must let you know that this is only a part, and a small part, of the journey of seeking the truth. For you exist within the third-density illusion where what one expects is not always what one achieves in the conscious sense. We would suggest to you that as you are traveling this journey of seeking and giving your efforts of energy and will and faith into the seeking, that you are awakening in the deeper portion of your mind a facet of this journey that is most helpful to you but which you may not be consciously aware.

You are much more than a conscious mind. You are that which is connected to the Creator through your subconscious mind. And as you give forth the effort to seek, to be, to become, to serve, this effort is seeded within your subconscious mind. And it grows. And it multiplies. And it manifests in ways that you may not be aware of.

There is a harvest to the sowing of the seed of intention that always grows, for this is the desire of the Creator to know itself in every facet of his being. And you manifest this knowing, this experiencing in a way which is totally, fully, and powerfully experienced by the Creator within your subconscious mind that may or may not become apparent to you at some point in your spiritual journey.

Thusly, we would suggest that you continue, as you have been: to have the faith and the will to progress and to meet the goals that you feel are important. For the intention here is that which powers your journey.

Is there a follow up query, my brother?

No, that’s fine. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. Several of us have been dealing with the death of one of the second-density entities that we call pets. We wish our pets would have a longer lifespan. At least I do. Even 20 years would be good. Is there a particular spiritual or metaphysical reason why our pets have a relatively short lifespan?

I’m Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. The span of life for all sentient beings is that which is infinite. Within your third-density illusion, the infinity of beingness of the second-density pet is limited in many cases, in this illusion, to a certain number of years, as you would call them. During these years of exchanging love and companionship back and forth from pet to you, from you to pet, you are aiding this second-density being in his own evolution so that at some point it may also become a third-density being because of its relationship with you; and its life continues as third-density being, though it ended as a second-density being.

We would also suggest to you that as it is within what you would call the inner planes, that it is existing as a new creature, a new being, before it takes incarnation into the third density. And this being is frequently with you, in your dreams, in your experience of the daily round of activities, when it may be there to greet you in some way that may or may not be recognized, that when there is the connection of hearts, whether they be second or third density, this connection has been expressed in the life path of both entities.

This is a connection that cannot be broken, for it represents the connection of the One Infinite Creator’s love that created all that there is in the infinite universe; and through this love made what we see as the planets and stars and the galaxies as the love became light.

In love and light you are connected to your pets, and they are always with you while you are here. And when you leave your body and move as an eternal being into the inner realms to the higher planes, you will see them again. And this time you will recognize them for who they are, the One Creator, as are you, knowing Itself through each expression of any form of life on every planet in the infinite universe.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Thank you so much for that beautiful response.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we will transfer this instrument, we correct this instrument, we will transfer this contract to the one known as Trish.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo and are now with this instrument. May we ask if there is a query to which we may speak?

I have a question about dreams. When you’re unable to remember certain details of your dreams, is that because you weren’t meant to remember it? Is that something that is completely lost? Or is it still within your subconscious mind in some capacity?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware of the query, my sister, and we appreciate this specific question. The dream state is one that is pregnant with opportunity for self-discovery and universal discovery. And so, we understand the desire to be able to interpret the dream state and these images, words, moments, feelings, and emotions that arise in this most peaceful and restful state.

We would like to impart that these experiences, wherein these minute, fine details are seemingly forgotten or not quite fully clear, are very common among the people on your planet at this time. There is much which you allow to distract or weigh heavy upon your heart or your mind, and that distraction can make it difficult to retain that which you envision in this state. However, that which cannot be remembered or fully deciphered is not truly lost. It is part of your being. It is an extension of you, be it Higher Self speaking to you, be it some larger force within you or without you. And we caveat that by saying that everything without you is also within you; so these minor details that may seem to be important or seemingly lost are always there. That experience is valid and real, and it cannot be unwritten. It existed in that moment.

Now to say that those minor details were not meant to be remembered is a more challenging consideration. For you see there is one school of thought that perhaps those missing pieces act as breadcrumbs for your own seeking, that they light that flame of self-reflection for further discovery, that the attempt to further understand without all these pieces is a road towards knowing the self and the Creator more fully.

We feel as though the very fact that you are questioning the importance of these is powerful and ripe with opportunity—that you want to know more, that you have set an intention to discover more deeply, to look more inward, to grasp more fully the illusory experience, so that they are not remembered is not inherently or in any way a bad thing.

There is another school of thought that we subscribe to that everything is in place just as it should be, just as it is meant to be, to guide you in this illusory experience, so that these puzzle pieces that are seemingly blurry or outside of your grasp is exactly as it should be in that moment; that you now have the space to meditate on those missing pieces or question your experience, make meaning of this dream state that you encounter. It is all perfectly poised to provide you that guiding light, that direction.

We say that [with the] understanding that many times there are instances in which these dream states seem nonsensical or simply reflections of your daily experience; that they may seem, for lack of better wording, shallow or unimportant. But we would only humbly suggest that there is fruit to be harvested from any such experience or moment in this state, even if it feels as though the movie you are watching is not magical or not familiar, not extraordinary.

In closing, if one is desiring to further uncover those pieces, we would only suggest that one do so with a gentle hand, for you are being presented by self with exactly what you need in that moment.

There are, of course, ways to deepen that practice, to hone those memories more clearly through the use of methods such as journaling or intentional dream setting prior to the slumber, or requesting visits from higher self but that, we correct this instrument, but those are all within a realm of understanding that the messages you need are before you, that the information you seek surrounds you dream state or not. But again, we understand this desire to more fully configure this space, this mental environment, this dream landscape to make sense of how one dances within that space, what that means for soul or spirit or physical vehicle. So we appreciate your query, my sister, and again only reiterate that all is well. And that which you seek is shining brightly in those moments.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, Q’uo. Thank you so much.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query that we may speak to at this time?

I have a question, Quo, that relates to astrocartography. I’m still forming it as I ask it, so I appreciate your patience. So, astrocartography is about your natal chart and specific places that you can experience different aspects of yourself. And I’m wondering, how important is it if we feel called to certain geographical locations, that we make plans to physically go there? Are we missing out on growth opportunities in this incarnation if we don’t follow this nudging?

We are those Q’uo, and we understand the query, my sister, and appreciate it as well. These feelings of nudgings, as you say, towards a physical space, a geographical location are very interesting to us. For we see it reflected throughout history of your peoples on this planet: the calls for pilgrimages to holy lands, to Mecca, and even to non-religious sites, such as the desire to place oneself in a wooded forest or by a stream. Those nudgings are also very intrinsic and personal to Spirit. They may be seen as perhaps hints or drops of inspiration from something greater than self, this desire to put one in some space for seemingly no reason other than this draw, this magnetism; and that desire existing not only within physical space but within self as well; this desire to develop self inwardly and to explore spiritual, nonphysical spaces of the personality or of the soul or of the mind.

I hope you will forgive us for stating that, as you know, there are no mistakes. There is nothing lost in the end, as you may say. All that exists is as it should be. To not explore these spaces that you are drawn to may seem to be a lost opportunity. And surely, in some instances, there would be a divergence from perhaps, we correct this instrument, a choice rather to be made between going in one direction towards that magnetism or not that there may be a missed chance to explore, to see what that magnetism is about.

But we assure you that [in] whatever direction you move, experience will present itself—just the experience one needs to mine the same lessons to extract the same gems. We say that only to express that there is a playfulness, a gentleness, and a compassionate nature to this experience, that there are no wrong turns, that every direction leads back to the One.

So, if one were to decide against that inclination, that draw, and stay fixed, one would receive that lesson again, whatever lesson that was to be learned from that exploration, whatever learning was meant to be uncovered will reappear perhaps in a different costume or a different landscape.

This is not to say that there was a wrong choice, because the catalyst or the challenges or even the gifts and the beautiful moments that occurred because a different path was chosen are equally powerful in your growth, in your steering towards the One. We would only humbly suggest that if one is feeling such magnetism, that one sit with that feeling and ask for guidance. Ask for higher self to impart an impression of some sort to help one understand where one is to go, where one is to journey, all the while knowing that there is no wrong answer.

This exploration is continually in movement, in motion. That you are feeling that draw is an extension of that exploration. There’s always forward movement. There’s always fluidity to this illusory life that you live.

If one takes the time to rest in the peace of knowing that all is as it should be, one may begin to see more clearly or more vividly to where their soul is drawn, and more clearly understand what that draw means—what lessons are there to learn on that journey?—and that there is plenty of space for faith in that process.

We hope that we have at least somewhat touched upon that which you seek in your question, my sister, and we would ask if there’s a follow up?

No, thank you. That was beautifully said.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am aware that this instrument is now ready to speak our words. We would ask that if there is a query at this time, that it be asked.

I have a question. I recently was honored to experience the Baha’i temple in North America, and I was intrigued that the tenants of this particular faith are very in tune with the Law of One. And I’m wondering about the founders, the leaders of this faith, Mirza Ali Mohammed or known as Bob, and if I’m saying that correctly; and then Mirza Hassan Ali Nuri, who then assumed after him, and he was called Baja Allah when he took his vows for this faith. And I’m wondering about their… I guess anything you could tell me about them and their densities or what is beneficial that they have brought to this world.

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. As with all of the great faiths or religions of your planetary sphere, there has been a contact here with the One Infinite Creator in a manner which is reflected in the philosophy of the Baha’i faith. This is a kind of philosophy that sees that there is unity among all entities, all creatures, all beings, that is reflected in their life path that is a journey which is made by each entity over a great period of what you would call time and through many lifetimes, so that what is learned in one lifetime is added to in another lifetime, so that what you may call the pieces of the puzzle are put together in a manner which reflects the unity of the creation that exists within each entity within the creation.

So, you may say that the Baha’i faith is that which is likened to another note in a musical score, where the music is the music of the creation, the music of the spheres, that is then apprehended, or perceived in a manner by those within this faith that gives them the journey that they travel in the seeking and serving of the One Creator in all things.

This is a kind of philosophy that is reflected in so many of your world religions, because there is nothing but the Creator that exists in any of the creation. Therefore, when the Creator is comprehended in a certain fashion by a various religion, you may see this as the facets of a jewel that is being perceived in a manner which allows entrance into the total expression and experience of the One Creator.

There are many types of visions or experiences of this type of Creatorship, shall we say, the facets of the jewel being perceived in ways that reflect back to the one preceding it: the nature of the self being the Creator; the nature of other selves being the Creator. The various rituals and rites of each religion then, the Baha’i faith included, are those which reflect the perceptions of those within the hierarchy; and the congregation, shall we say, [are] those who are members of the faith and who move in a rhythm with the dance of unity. This is a means by which all are informed and illuminated at some point in their spiritual journeys, for it is the path of all spiritual religions that lead back to the One Infinite Creator, such as spokes in a wheel - there are many spokes but one wheel, and one source.

May we speak further, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, I have one, Q’uo. Can you please speak to how you would recommend that we witness suffering of others without taking it on ourselves?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Suffering is a state of being which is greatly misunderstood, or misapprehended, within your third-density illusion. We would suggest that all entities learn through some degree of suffering, for to suffer is to feel that one is not complete, that one has much to learn, that one travels a path that is fruitful in the potential for learning. For if there is no suffering, there is little experience of how one may expand one’s perception of one’s being as becoming more and more of the One Infinite Creator.

The suffering that is experienced by so many people at this time can be utilized as food for growth; for the suffering impels, or compels, the one who suffers to seek a kind of release, or relief, from the suffering. This journey of seeking relief takes one along many paths moving in sympathy and in synchronicity with the One Creator.

The suffering is that which is incomplete. A state of feeling the difficulties of the life experience traveling the journey of relieving the suffering is that which offers the opportunity for the completion of the life experience to have found its goal, that is the realization that truly all suffering leads to the joy of the One Infinite Creator that is expressed in many different ways within your illusion, including the leaving of the life path so that the spirit may move on to higher and higher realms of being in another density or in another life experience within this density.

The suffering is that which seems to be that which needs to be obliterated or cured. [However,] we would suggest [that] it needs to be experienced. The one observing the suffering of another may realize that this suffering is that which offers both the larger perspective. There is no random experience of suffering that does not lead to greater growth and illumination.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we will transfer this contact to the one known as Trish.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are again with this instrument. Is there a query that we may speak to at this time?

Well, yes, Q’uo. My wife and I are fortunate to have the opportunity to build a house. And I am wondering if there is a particular orientation that would enhance the meditations, the prayers, and the spiritual practices we plan to do in this house. In a channeling many years ago, you advise the channeler, Carla, to face 20 degrees east of north in order to better receive signals from those of Hatonn. 1 Would you advise aligning our house in that same direction for better contact with the Confederation or our guides or angels?

We are those of Q’uo, and we understand your query, my brother, and thank you. This is a potentially difficult question to answer specifically in terms of providing you a direct, concise number of degrees of orientation for we feel as though there is, for lack of better phrasing, space in this question to be explored first.

The orientation of one soul may find greater access than a different orientation for a different soul. There are large general practices that you may call Feng Shui, or the positioning of perhaps certain rooms or windows, to maximize the infiltration of the loving light of the sun. But the potency and the specific identification of the direction of self, or of domicile, is one that is challenging to break from the stone, if you will.

Each environment has its own unique energies that play, that communicate with your earth body, that communicate with your third-density human body, that communicate with your second-density friends. This interplay of energies is highly variable at times, especially when taking into consideration perhaps the historical energetic imprint of previous incarnations in that physical space. There are many locations that are highly impacted by the previous actions of third-density dwellers. Be that due to actions of love or that of actions of bellicosity.

We would suggest taking time to sit with the land and understand its energetic signature, and vision the body as freely moving energy not bound by bone or skin. See where that energy flows. See where that energy feels drawn towards. See where it feels as though the light shines more purely or the grass grows more bountifully. Listen to the messages of your Gaia, for she can speak to those questions. And listen to the words of your soul. Listen to what your heart has to say. Hear what the creation is telling you.

The creation will give you an impression. It may be hard to discern, or difficult to translate at times. But your intuition will be a helpful guide; and trusting that your intuition is that helpful guide, you may then feel more resonance with a certain location, a certain direction, a certain configuration.

Of course, there are other facets of the domicile that come into play such as shape or design. But, in your heart, the messages that you receive will be the power that moves your hands, that opens your eyes, that inspire your mind. Feel that connection with your beautiful planet. Open your hand to her, and she will also walk alongside you on this journey that you may have a more harmonious cohabitation with her. And she will surely give to you with that peace, that loving mothering energy that she provides all. So we feel that establishing that connection and noticing those subtle energies are perhaps your best first steps forward.

We do apologize if you were seeking more specific information. We know that having something more clearly cut is especially helpful in these rather large, as you may call them, incarnational decisions, these moments that require a lot of consideration, and perhaps you may see it as risk-involved as well.

Again, we stress that one trust one’s intuition and open one’s heart to what is being communicated to you. And have much faith in knowing that you are on a path towards discovering that which you seek, that the door will open figuratively and literally to this most humble peaceful abode, one that has at its intention of its creation the spiritual journey and the open heart.

And so, we must thank you for this question, my brother, and we appreciate the conscientiousness in your decisions, in your questions, in your actions towards creating this space. And the creation smiles back in appreciation as well.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, Q’uo. Thank you for that very conscientious answer.

We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time that we may speak to?

I have a question forming. When talking about trusting our intuition, or leaning into what might be a download of good material versus a download of mind-created material, do you have any recommendations for how to sort out why what might be intuitively known on that deeper level versus what might be daily human range? And to elaborate on not so much just a thought process, but a dream process or a visual process or trance process, any guidance on how to know what to trust?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware of the query, my sister, and are thankful for this query. To begin, the most important, or perhaps central understanding to this query is that the intuition ultimately serves the self one way or the other; that these downloads, be they of more of the mental chatter, as you say, or those of perhaps higher planes, are of equal value in the long run. They serve some purpose, be that to inspire or open new avenues for consideration, or to challenge the self towards acceptance and loving the self, or whatever that chatter may bring about.

We would say that perhaps the first step is evaluating whether this message or this feeling has, as its center, an invocation of love. Is that which I am receiving based in love? Is that which I am receiving inspiring me to love in return? Does this message help me keep my heart open?

If you find that that which you are receiving is inspiring fear, perhaps that message, though, is not inherently fear itself, for fear is just a reworking of love, but that there is something to mine there as well. That the message is, perhaps uncomfortable or challenging, but is still an opportunity to practice faith, to simply see that message as a message, to recognize what it brings up in oneself, and to love it for that opportunity to experience that feeling in knowing if it is something of a higher nature, or if it is something within yourself—all is ultimately of the same source.

While understanding may not be of this density, there is a central truth to Spirit that knows, that accepts, that can, in some way, make sense of all messages, of all information, for all goes back to love. That even these messages that seem inconsequential, that are uncertain, that their very formation, their very creation as thought is an expression of love, is the Creator acting as a portion of the creation.

To know whether there is depth to it is perhaps a little more challenging. We recommend the evaluation of the message again, asking what it brings up in self, recognizing where love can be brought in regardless of whether the message is one of absolute clear love or if there is some discoloration through the lens of experience that seemingly distorts the message; but finding the love within it and being in tune with the sensations in oneself as one receives that message.

Again, we understand that intuition plays a key here. The ultimate radar, if you will, for intuition is that if you feel [that] this piece, this experience, this moment has importance to it, and if it feeds your soul or speaks to you, or even challenges you, you feel that draw and that magnetism, and you feel that it is of some importance, then that is the value. You establish the value; it is important. You have faith in your discernment; you have faith in your spirit to receive, to understand, to disseminate the information from which this message gives you.

So to speak to exercises that may help oneself to develop intuition or to hone discernment, it all comes back to recognizing love. “Where is love in this?” Because there has to be love in this. “Where do I feel this coming up for me in my egoic experience?” And having the patience and the faith that you will receive that which you need to direct you in a direction, for lack of a better phrasing, the intentional setting of space to explore these nudgings, as the previous question asker a round ago had experienced, and seeing them as opportunities. Trusting the strength of yourself and the rightness of yourself will illuminate the path towards realizing that which is helpful to you on your journey, and that which may be loved and seen for its validity within creation as a creation that is infinitely faceted, and lovingly let go of, for it does not serve you in some way.

We apologize if this has been incoherent in any way, but we would simply offer our love and light to you as you try to make your path forward, and that you know that you are never alone in this experience.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No. Very clear and concise. Thank you.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we will transfer the contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument once again. We would ask if there is a query to which we may respond?

First, I would like to thank Latwii, Hatton, and Ra for making this precious treasure of your communication available to us, and I am expressing my gratitude for that. Thank you.

The question is about the third spiral of the pyramid. 2 And I would like to ask a question about the benefits and effects of that third spiral. The reason being I’ve taken to a practice of brief meditation with the miniature pyramid under my head as described by Ra, and I’ve noticed sensory and perceptual changes that seem out of proportion to my usual state. The insights are more open and profound. And the first one that came to me was that the third spiral is directly affecting the pineal gland. And then that’s why it was having these enhanced perceptions and insights.

I was wondering if you could comment on the uses, the benefits or advising for or against and how to use the energy of that third spiral?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my sister. The use of the pyramid shape under what you have called your pillow is that which takes advantage of the third spiral which proceeds from the top of the pyramid much as the flame in the candle does. This spiral is that which energizes one’s being which is most usually perceived within, as you have noted, the indigo-ray energy center, that which is the area that may be described as the awakening of intelligent energy. 3

This energy may be perceived, as you have noted, as an increase in your ability to feel an inspiration and a recognition of different layers or levels of your own being so that you are expanding your perception and experience of intelligent energy. This type of energy is also that which helps with the ability to utilize the abilities of language that give you a greater variety of concepts or sound vibration complexes, as those of Ra refer to words. You may feel also an inspiration within what you might call your spirit complex so that you are able to reflect more of the nature of the unity of creation in your perceiving of those entities about you and those experiences that you have with them.

It is a powerful way to utilize one’s being to put it under the pillow, but we would recommend, as did those of Ra, that you limit the time that this is done to approximately 30 of your minutes, for it is possible to become what you would call over-energized and receive too much of the power of the third spiral, which, paradoxically, would be experienced by the feeling of tiredness or weariness.

Is there a follow up query, my sister?

No, thank you so much for this. Very helpful. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, in session 22, Ra talks about a smaller group of third-density beings in South America, and it may be 150 who successfully polarized their consciousness, made the Choice, and were eligible for graduation from third density at the close of the second major cycle of 25,000 years. 4 I’m wondering, what was it about this group that allowed them to succeed when the rest of the third-density entities on the planet were not making the Choice? Ra indicated that they had a monastic background, and I’m wondering if that played a role.

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. The South American entities to which you refer, were those who had, in previous incarnations, been able to realize more of the nature of the creation than most third-density entities are able to realize. This was because, though they were part of what you may call a primitive society, they had very advanced spiritual practices which had been initiated, shall we say, by contact with what you would call Confederation sources that gave them the type of information which we attempt to share with you at this time: information that regards the spiritual path within the third density that has as its goal the opening of the green-ray energy center, the heart center, in unconditional love.

When this is done, as was done by these entities in another incarnation, on another planet, they are then able to feel the love of the Creator, and to express it to others in a manner which enhances the beingness of those giving the love and those receiving.

Thus, when they were able to move out of their third-density bodies and walk into the light that would determine their ability to share unconditional love, they found that they had been able to do so in a manner which was congruent with being, shall we say, harvested into the fourth density of love and understanding. However, they were part of a larger group, which had not been able to make this choice in the degree as made by them. Thus, they felt it was important to continue their journeys on this planet within the third density in order to aid their brothers and sisters who had yet to make this choice.

Is there a follow up query?

Yeah, thank you. You indicated that they had had some contact with Confederation entities whereby they received inspired information. That contact, however, is a result of their own initiative, their own calling. And I’m still wondering what was unique about these entities that this orientation developed for them and not those of their larger group, and not generally among others on the planet? Is there anything that can be said?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. There are two reasons, you might say, for their success. [Firstly,] at that time upon the Planet Earth there was the possibility of a great deal of isolation, you might say, between one culture and another so that there was the possibility of an enhanced perception in one culture and a less enhanced perception in another culture of the nature of creation being that of unity, that the One Creator exists in all things. The second reason is that within any culture or any classroom, shall we say, such as the third density, that some students will excel more than others so that there is a gradation of perception of the nature of reality that these entities were able to take advantage of, and move forward in their own spiritual paths, whereas others within their grouping, were not as fortunate at that time.

Was there a follow up query, my brother?

No, thank you so much, Q’uo.

I Quo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I’ll squeak in one more before it seems like the contact closes, I presume. During the course of the Ra contact, Ra described multiple times how the instrument was supported by energy transfer. The primary means of that transfer was through sexual energy transfer, of course, but Ra also described how Don and Jim’s just loving care of Carla transferred energy to her. And they also said specifically, that the “sendings” of Jim and Don were thought forms that positively impacted Carla.

I’m wondering if you can talk about how to increase the potency and efficacy of these sort of thought-forms [or] sendings in positive service to another being?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my brother. As one enters into the meditative state, one has the ability to create a thought that one wishes to share with another in a loving manner, thusly drawing upon the energy of love in the light of One Infinite Creator that dwells within each entity. Thus, when the thought of love and support is created within the meditative state, it takes advantage of this love that has created the universe and forms it into an image that maybe sent through the limitless distance of time and space to any being that it is desired receive it.

This thought-form, then, can be perceived by the recipient as a kind of loving embrace and vivification of the spiritual nature of creation. The recipient, then, with this feeling of support and love may feel this within every cell of the body of the being so that it is enhanced and enriched in a manner that is desired by the Creator of the thought-form; for you are the Creator of the thought-form as the Creator is the Creator of you, as a thought form—with more tangible effect, shall we say, within the third-density illusion.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, that was beautiful. Thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there any final query at this time?

I am Q’uo, and as we seem to have exhausted the queries, we would like to thank each present for the queries. These are precious forms of thoughts from you, to us, that we fully appreciate. This gives us great inspiration for we feel that we have been able to blend our energies with yours in a manner of which has created what you might call the small version of a social memory complex this afternoon. This is always our great desire to blend love with love, light with light, the Creator with the Creator. At this time, we shall take our leave of this group and this instrument with praise and thanksgiving to each and to all.

We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

This was actually introduced by those of Ra:

“The instrument at this time should be in trance. The proper alignment is the head pointed twenty degrees north-by-northeast. This is the direction from which the newer or New Age distortions of love/light, which are less distorted, are emanating from, and this instrument will find comfort therein.” #2.6 (See also #59.23)

Also, in the January 4, 2020 channeling, the first Q&A explores the 20 degree orientation. ↩

For more information, see “Metaphysics of the Pyramid” and “Pyramids: Healing & Initiation Machine” on the Ra Contact page. ↩

Ra doesn’t indicate that the third spiral has direct stimulation of the indigo ray energy center, but rather that it has an energizing effect in three specific categories:

“There are substances which you may ingest which cause the physical vehicle to experience distortions towards an increase of energy. These substances are crude, working rather roughly upon the body complex increasing the flow of adrenaline.

The vibration offered by the energizing spiral of the pyramid is such that each cell, both in space/time and in time/space, is charged as if hooked to your electricity. The keenness of mind, the physical and sexual energy of body, and the attunement of will of spirit are all touched by this energizing influence. It may be used in any of these ways.” – #66.22

Though they do also indicate that it may be of use in spiritual work #66.27 and, for a certain percentage of seekers, as an aid in meditation #66.28. ↩

See #15.15 and #15.17-20 ↩

