Topics: Balancing the chakras; personal identity in experiencing oneness; current morphic resonance and harmonics of the planet; possessions in fourth density; investing.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and we are with this instrument. And we have joined your group today and greet each of you in Love and in Light. We are grateful to have been called to your group, for your desire to seek more information concerning your spiritual journeys back into unity with the One Infinite Creator. As always, we recommend that you take what we say with, what you might call, a grain of salt. If any words or thoughts that we speak do not ring of truth to you, please set them aside without a second thought. Take only that which has meaning to you, and use it as you will. This will allow us to be able to speak more freely, and to be able to give responses to your queries that will hopefully ring of truth to you on your spiritual path.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin.

Yes, I have one. It has to do with balancing chakras. And, I mean, I understand the idea behind it, but I don’t understand how you would do it. Do you do this through balancing good and bad occurrences in your life? Or, and I’m assuming, no, more than assuming, forgiveness has to be the best way. But are we to balance every little nuance in our life? Bad occurrence that we don’t like and balance it with good? Or is there more to this that I don’t understand.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. This query has great significance. For, in one sense or another, it is both necessary and most helpful to be able to use the catalyst of your illusion as food for growth. The catalyst could be anything that takes you off of the center of the love of the One Infinite Creator, which is your starting point. The love of the Creator made all that there is within the One Infinite Creation—made every entity, every being, everything. That is where you are when you are not experiencing catalyst, any catalyst, be it what you might call of a positive nature or of a negative nature, that which causes one to be happy, causes one to the sadness, causes one to feel difficulty, or causes one to feel that there is no difficulty.

When you are at the end of your day, it is helpful to engage in the balancing process in the meditative state, so that you review what you might call the book of your experience for the day that you have helped to write; and others who have interacted with you have also been co-authors of this book of experiences.

You look first at whatever took you off of your center of love. You relive that experience with whomever was involved. Then you exaggerate that experience. You cause it to get larger and larger, so that it makes more of an impact in your total being. So that you feel its presence, you feel its power, you feel how it has caused you to move away from that basic foundation: the experience of love. Then, you imagine the opposite of this experience that would also then grow by itself into an equal amount of power, expression, and experience.

This type of balancing, then, is based upon the premise that those of Ra have shared with this group that says that in order to balance a distortion, one must accentuate it. So, feeling the accentuation of both the positive and the negative, the good and the bad, you see yourself as being acceptable for having both of these experiences within your being as a portion of what you shall become throughout your life experience, that is the One Infinite Creator, a 360-degree being that has all of the experiences that can ever be imagined contained within it.

This is your journey, this is your path. This is the path of every seeker of truth: to discover the nature of the Creator within the self. This discovery is made by balancing all of the catalysts, the food for growth, that comes to you in every day of your life. This is a journey of seeking that could well take an entire lifetime, and more than one lifetime, to accomplish. But as you are able to do this and to gain more experiences and become more and more a 360-degree being, then you become more and more of the One Infinite Creator. You fulfill the journey of every seeker of truth to become one once again with the One Infinite Creator, which you always have been since before time began, for you were made by the One Creator, out of the One Creator, within the universe of the One Creator.

Is there a follow up query, my brother?

Just one. As you do this, as you do this balancing and you say, “Okay, I am going to balance… I desire to balance my chakra.” But are you having to say this particular chakra or will this just go where it’s needed?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is often helpful on the intellectual level, as well as the experiential level, to be able to see how each chakra is affected by whatever catalyst that you have experienced. For the experience of, say, anger and the opposite of acceptance can be utilized throughout all of the chakras. So that, within the red-ray chakra, that which is concerned with survival and sexual reproduction that, you see, perhaps there was a place where your survival was at risk.

Within the orange-ray chakra, or the personal nature of your being, your personal eccentricities and expression of the basic ability to accept yourself, that maybe that acceptance of the self was something that was distorted in a manner which could benefit from the balancing.

As you move into the yellow ray of your group activities, perhaps the catalyst was something that affected the group, your family, the workplace, your community, and so forth.

The green-ray chakra of unconditional love for all about one, if that was momentarily interrupted by your experience that then can also be a portion of the balancing process that helps you know more about how to love others as yourself and as the One Infinite Creator.

The blue-ray chakra, a freely given and received communication, perhaps was hindered at some point where the ability to communicate with another, or to understand another, was hindered by some interaction that brought catalyst.

The indigo-ray chakra, that where you are experiencing the nature of intelligent energy, the beginning of the choice to become the Creator, to open oneself to that experience, was perhaps not allowed a free range of possibility.

The violet-ray chakra is one which is not usually involved in such experiences as it is your basic nature. It is who you are when you look at all chakras added up according to how you have been able to process your catalyst throughout your life experience.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Trisha. We are those of Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument. May we ask if there is a query to which we may speak?

Yes, Q’uo, thank you so much. I wish to open my heart energy center to experience a greater level of deep connection with Oneness, with the Oneness of all creation. I can feel the power behind that and what that means to be at One and to feel this deep infinite connection. But I have a fear that is in between there, and it’s blocking… it’s a fear of losing my identity or losing my feeling of who I am. You know, my own personal identity. Can you speak to that?

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you and understand your query, my sister. Indeed, this experience of which you speak is not an uncommon one upon the people of this planet. For you see, the movement towards the heart chakra, the development of that unconditional, unbreaking love is the journey towards the realization of unity and of oneness. It is inherently challenging to be part of the Creator that you call identity, that you call ego, that which separates by choice so that Creator may learn more about creation. We wish to tell you that though this is not an uncommon experience, we do empathize with the experience itself, and we do so joyfully, we might add. For it is a most potent catalyst for you to experience. We are joyous because the realization that is on the other side is fully encapsulating, is ringing with the music of creation, that movement of flow of love and of energy throughout everything all at once.

If you could imagine, we hear of your struggle and we smile. For it is one of the greatest lessons you are learning here at this time, that to let go of this sense of self, lovingly, we might add, opens the self up to the greater truth of this united experiential reality. We understand that the illusion is so created to, we shall say, trick or condition you into believing that there is a self that is separate from another self, that the identity you hold so dearly, [that] you’ve put energy and time into cultivating. And we would speak to that and say that that is an honorable investment of energy as well. For that, too, is experience that the Creator can draw upon to know Itself. There is no waste of time or space or vibration in any of that.

Over time you have developed a sense of who you are on a global level, if you will, on a very minute stage in the reality of everything. And that development has gifted all of creation in ways and means undefinable. And we understand your desire to move towards that Oneness. And that it can be difficult to reconcile the two: the separate self and the desire to open the heart towards the true unity, the unconditional love that flows through all. And we would suggest that you see that struggle and that experience with that open heart that you desire to fully embody, embracing the challenge and knowing that it is a beautiful, perfect challenge. It is a gift and a blessing to be tested, if you will, in such a way to look upon creation and see it as One, as part of self. I am that and that is me.

This intention that you have set forth is perhaps the greatest leap forward on this journey of this incarnation of which you speak. And many on this planet are finding themselves embarking upon that same journey. And there is a bit of a pun in that description for to find oneself, one must find the capital One Self, the One Self that is all that there is.

And so, my sister, we would humbly suggest that this experience, though challenging and perhaps frustrating and uncomfortable, is a most noble one; and that the gift of this challenge is already taking root, already presenting you with a bounty upon which to cultivate this path forward. That you are asking these questions is a highlight of that. And you will find that many across this planet are asking the same questions, seeking to find the unity, seeking to let the identity fall away, hoping to discover that path where brother and sister may hold hands in the realization that they are one another in this unending infinite spiral of energy.

Is there a follow up query, my sister?

No, that’s perfect. Thank you.

We thank you, my sister. At this time, we shall take leave of this instrument and transfer our contact to the one known as Gary. We are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo, and we join this circle again exercising this instrument in our humble intention to be of service that we may share some thoughts simply for your consideration that it may serve to support the long journey that only your feet can walk, that only the your choice-making capacities can make a decision for, that only your heart can open to. We are your brothers and sisters along this journey.

May we ask if there is a query in the circle at this time? We are those of Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo, I have a question. Thank you for the honor of being able to ask you a question. I hope I can articulate this. Earlier this week, the subject of morphis [sic] harmonics came up. And it kept coming up and coming up. And later in the week, “social memory complex” became sort of a theme. And I’m wondering if there’s something going on with the morphic resonance and harmonics right now on the planet in relationship to the social memory complexes trying to form of service to others and service to all. So, it just feels as if something is changing or perhaps growing. Would you be able to comment on that, please?

We have received your query and thank you, my sister. And thank you for opening with the expression of honor. We assure you it is reciprocated and felt intensely on our end, for this is a rare opportunity toward which we look forward with eagerness in our attempts not only to be of service, but to be with you in a more intimate fashion, at least insofar as is available to us from our distance.

You seem to have noticed a recurring theme of late in your seeking journey concerning these concepts that you identify as harmonics in the social memory complex, and the interaction of the fields, morphogenic and otherwise. And it is well to pay attention to these cues as they occur to the self. For they offer threads of insight into the self’s own journey, not just as an individual, but as a member of the collective who contributes to that collective, who is also responsible for serving that collective as a shepherd in a way, you might say, in terms of being a radiator of love and light, and an anchor of those energies toward which your inquiry points.

Indeed, there is change afoot, you may say, in the waning light of your third-density sphere. That is a true statement now and will continue to be an even truer statement as the illusory experience of your time moves forward and the decades, as you experience it, pass, and your population lurches from one difficulty to the next, toward this birth of the fourth density. The trajectory for the transition of any third-density planet into the fourth density is one of the movement toward the social memory complex wherein the illusory matrix of the experience of individuals relating to individuals with an ocean of mystery and unknown between, because said individuals are, for the most part, unaware of each other’s thoughts, experiences, and intentions except through indirect inference, intuition, analysis, and, the most important doorway of all, listening and sensitivity; wherein the individual is becoming increasingly aware of other-selves and the whole; wherein the great rhythms and dynamics and narratives and movements within the collective and within the many, many subgroups of that collective can be contemplated in a more conscious fashion.

Because of the long-term and deep-seated disharmony upon your sphere, particularly as regards the affinity of your peoples for bellicosity, those emerging—we correct this instrument—the awareness, increasingly, of those collective dynamics is an awareness of conflict, as your societal complex is a somewhat dis-integrated body. The many aspects of your planetary journey [are] of a rather fragmented nature, with value languages and tribal stories that seem mutually unintelligible to one another in various ways, if not at direct odds, on a spectrum of friction from the irritating on one hand to the open enmity and war on the other.

This, for the positive social memory complex, represents a good deal of homework that the students and forerunners of the fourth-density social memory complex have upon their school desk, shall we say. And in that homework is the necessity to bring these various fields into the heart, to greet each energy with love, to recognize the greater narrative of perfection within which these stories of conflict and cooperation unfold, to understand that in each moment, however it may filter through one’s own prism of values, the Creator is knowing Itself.

This is the One which has forgotten itself as the many. The key to its awakening to this truth is the loving acceptance of what is, the releasing of that inner resistance to what is, the unentangling from the stream of time into the portal of the eternal present moment. That which is in disharmony [then] is invited to become, or to enter into, harmony.

This happens most fundamentally and importantly within the self’s own heart and awareness. For the self is the world and the world is the self, and the only place where the self may truly contribute to the healing of the world is within the self. As the self heals the political, national, and ethnic divides and cultural battles and so forth within the heart, so too is the whole healed; so too are others invited into this harmony; so too is the light given an opportunity to enter where before it was perhaps blocked or obscured, as if the shade has been pulled up from the window and the healing, resplendent, glorious light of the One is allowed to shine into that formerly darkened interior space, revealing its contents in a truer light for the first time.

This is not a harsh judgmental light that separates, though distinction is acknowledged, but is a unifying light wherein those boundaries which separate others in a lack of love begin to melt, and those fields of which you spoke enter into a harmonic relationship such that the proportion of the different vibrational notes of the self and of groups when in relationship with one another make a music, a melody.

Is there a follow up query at this time, my sister?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

We thank you, my sister. At this time, we transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and am once again with this instrument who would ask if there might be another query to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo, I have a question. In A Course in Miracles we study that there… that possessions are an illusion, that the body is an illusion, that everything we are seeing and experiencing is an illusion. So, as we move from third density into fourth density, how will possessions be and how will we have relationship to possessions, and how will we relate to them and will we need them? And how do we let go of them? Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is a query which is one that applies to the very nature of one’s existence. For possessions and the very quality and nature of one’s being, the world in which you live and move and have your being are all one kind, or degree, of illusion or another. For the only true quality is the One Infinite Creator that has made all of the densities of creation, the entities that inhabit them, and the journey that each is upon in reunification with One Creator. This creating of the octave densities, the entities that inhabit each density, and what are called possessions are those things that are used in the daily round of activities, or the various levels of experience to enhance the experience, or those means by which each seeker of truth shall come more and more into unity with the One Infinite Creator. This is done through the illusion of separation, the illusion of that what you call the possessions, the illusion of the identity that you call yourself. For yourself, in all truth, is the One Creator.

The One Creator has made all of the infinite creation as a means by which it might know Itself better. For this is the great journey of all seekers of truth, because it is also the seekers of truth that exist as the One Creator. The One Creator being desirous of knowing Itself through each entity, through each density, through each experience, through each possession. There is, therefore, nothing that is truly other than the One Creator, in the ultimate sense. Only in the illusion of each density is there, what might be called, that which is not real, not a valuable portion of the Creator. There is only the One Creator at all times. Each portion of the One Creator, each seeker of truth then travels through the octave of densities in order to know more of itself as the Creator, which allows the Creator to know more of Itself as the Creator. This is the marriage of illusion and reality. It is that which is the fuel for the journey of the path of each seeker of Truth and also is a means by which the One Creator may know more of itself.

Is there a follow up query, my sister?

No, thank you. That’s beautiful.

I would like to ask further related to that. How do we balance investment and saving with the intention of using that investment and saving for ultimate good with the day-to-day disinvestment and service of others? Can we feel comfortable investment and saving for the long haul? Or should we continuously be seeking this investment?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Any investment that you make, of time, money or talent can be seen as a means by which you may realize more and more of the One Creator within yourself as is determined by how you used each investment. It is your intention which makes each use of most value. Thus, the intention may be strong, may be continuous, and may be fruitful in the spiritual sense.

Or it might be in the other direction, that for those who do not know that there is a spiritual path to follow, the time, talent, and money may be the goal of such an entity. Only when entities become conscious of the path of spiritual seeking can these time, talents, and money investments then become tools by which the One Infinite Creator may manifest itself through you, and you may manifest service to the One Infinite Creator as how you use the various time, talents and investments.

Is there a follow up query, my brother?

No, thank you so much Q’uo. Much appreciated.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you. At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one on his Trisha. We are those of Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are again with this instrument. May we ask if there’s a query to which we may speak?

[pause]

We are those of Q’uo, and it appears that we have exhausted the questions of the circle at this time. Through this instrument, we would like to issue a note of gratitude for this opportunity to exercise and vocalize and share information, both through this instrument and through each and every one of you here.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and depart with some parting words with our contact through the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and am once again with this instrument. We would like to thank each entity within the circle of seeking for being a part of the spiritual growth of each other entity and of ourselves as well. For as we offer our queries and questions and respond to your queries and questions, we ourselves move further along in our spiritual journey. And we move with you in unison, for in truth, we are all one, and that illusion of separation [facilitates] the great journey of seeking the truth, of reunification with the One which each here is—the One which rejoices as each person here, and as we as well, seeks through questions and answers to understand more than what it is to be the One Infinite Creator, to see that Creator and all things within the self as well. For as we move along with you on this spiritual journey, we are most pleased to see how we might move in unison in the great dance of beingness. This great dance which has been proceeding from time immemorial, and which shall proceed for a great deal of time, as you know it, into the future, into to those times which are beyond the concept of time.

We are those of Q’uo, and at this time, we shall take a leave of this group and this instrument, leaving each as we found you, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.

