(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of our Infinite Creator. What a joy and a privilege it is to be asked to join your group this afternoon. We have long accompanied this group upon a significant portion of its spiritual path, and we are always most honored to be able to join you in yet another effort to expand the love in your heart, the understanding in your minds, and the inspiration in your souls—for we are, like you, seekers of truth. We have, perhaps, traveled a few steps further upon the path than have you, thus, it is our own way of growing in further understanding to offer ourselves to you at this time in hopes that we may serve you by attempting to answer the queries which you pose to us.

However, before we begin we would ask our perpetual favor: that is, that you take those words and thoughts that we offer to you and use them as you will. If any should not ring of truth to you, leave them aside without a second thought, for we would not wish to become stumbling blocks upon your path. If you would do this favor for us, it will make it much easier for us to speak to you, for we do not wish to appear as authorities who have the ultimate answers for any question you may pose. We are those who have our own distortions, and yet feel that we have enough of a grasp upon the evolutionary path which you now travel that we may attempt to answer your queries.

Is there a query with which we may begin?

Q’uo, Dewey Larsen, the engineer and theoretician whom Don and Ra had discussed, wrote that one purpose of sleep is that it rebalances the imbalance between space/time and time/space that occurs during the waking hours. Q’uo, would you please speak to that, and to whether meditation also helps with this balancing?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, both the states of which you call sleep and the state of which you call meditation are means by which there is a balance achieved between that which is your conscious mind and that which is your unconscious mind, or your subconscious mind. For as you know well, these two portions of your unified mind are divided or separated by what you have called the “veil of forgetting.” This veil of forgetting provides you with the means by which your process of polarization may be enhanced as it requires that you constantly seek in a conscious fashion, that which seems hidden from you: that is, more of the unity, the love, and the light, of the One Creator.

In your daily round of activities, as you consciously see and experience those events that populate your day and interact with those people that are a portion of your day, you are then able to begin processing the catalyst that they provide for you in the form of any movement in your being away from unconditional love. Thus, as you use your meditative state in any type of a balancing process to attempt to get a better grasp of the nature of the catalyst you have experienced, you are engaging in the polarization process. The effort that you make, the struggle that you must put forth, the attempt to untangle that which seems unknown or doubtful, is the essence of the spiritual journey, the attempt to make sense and to understand that which seems lacking in sense and understanding.

Thus, as you engage in the process of sleep, you relax the conscious mind to the point that it is no longer the primary player within your being, but gives over this role to that portion that you call your unconscious mind, so that the catalyst which you have experienced becomes a tool, or a portion of an effort to give you images through your dreams that may further illuminate the experience that you have had in your conscious daily round of activities. Your meditative state offers you another means by which to approach the attempt to understand that which has come to you in your conscious experience, for in meditation you can use the ability to focus more clearly and concisely upon these catalytic events than is normally available to you in your conscious mind as it is busying itself with a multitude of thoughts and responses. These are more likely to fall away in both the sleeping state, especially, and in the meditative state according to the ability of the meditator.

The meditative state also offers another opportunity to ask questions of your unconscious mind that perhaps an intuitional flash will bring to you as an illumination, or perhaps it will be an experience you will have later in your conscious experience of the day when the interesting coincidences or synchronicities may begin to appear within your waking experience that are a result of having asked for assistance in your meditative state from the unconscious mind. Thus are you able to utilize both your conscious and your unconscious mind in your seeking process if you are able to give those portions of your experience that are relegated to dreams and to meditation as much credence and value that you give those experiences of your conscious state.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Yes. Does our sleep and meditation also help Gaia’s balance of her physical and metaphysical aspects and perhaps help manifest fourth-density physical?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. This is an interesting query, in that the answer is both a yes and a perhaps. The yes is given to those entities who are able to use the meditative state in a more specific sense. That is, in the ability to create visualizations of various portions of Gaia that are in need of healing, and to see them with clarity for a number of what you would call your minutes. These visions, held in the conscious mind, then in the meditative state, may provide an ability for the forces of light to send to Gaia those imaged experiences of healing and wholeness that she so desperately needs. The perhaps is given to those entities who are able to utilize their catalyst in the sense by which we just spoke in the previous query, to enhance their own process of seeking so that they are able to open their hearts more and more in the love vibration, and this vibration is that which then adds its healing energy to that of Gaia and her needs, for as you grow, so does she grow. As more and more seek the love and the light of the One Creator within their own hearts and experiences, so then is further healing offered to your Mother Earth.

Is there another query at this time?

Just a short one. When you spoke of the visualizations of portions of Gaia, I’m assuming that includes the human population, and plant and animal populations that might be in a certain area, or were you speaking of just the physical planet—the first-density part of the planet?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. When we spoke of the healing of the entity known as Gaia, we spoke of the healing that is offered by each conscious seeker to any portion of the Mother Earth that is visualized by the seeker in the meditative state. Thus, it is the seeker who directs the energy to those areas in need of healing.

Is there another query at this time?

I’m still unclear—so the portion of Gaia would include humans, and any part of the planet, Is that right? I guess I’m not making myself clear, I’m sorry.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query. We shall attempt to be as clear as possible. The seeker who utilizes meditation and visualization determines the portion of Gaia that receives the healing vibration.

Is there another query at this time?

No, thank you, thank you so much Q’uo.

We thank you, my sister.

Is there another query at this time?

Yes Q’uo, I have a query. Can you please advise on how I can refine or be more efficient in my own seeking and work as a psychologist, that would result in greater awareness of how I can better serve other selves?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. To any seeker of truth such as yourself, who wishes to enhance the process of seeking and the efficiency of the service of others through the sharing of the bounty that is possible in seeking, the bounty of love and of light, we would again, as has been offered by Confederation sources for many of your years, recommend the using of the meditative state to begin to make deeper and deeper contact with your own subconscious or unconscious mind. Within this portion of your being is described for you and by you before the incarnation those qualities of your own talents and desires that wish to learn and to serve that will be able to be potentiated by your incarnational experience.

Thus it is truly said: that that which you seek is already within your being. It is your task as the seeker of truth to unlock these potentials and treasures which are available to you through your own incarnative choices. You may also utilize contemplation, prayer, and analysis to look at what you have before you that you feel needs attention in the way of enhancing your own seeking process and in the way of offering your service to others. The analysis that you engage in may be seen as a preliminary step in the formation of an outline, shall we say, that can channel forth those talents and abilities from your unconscious mind that they may fill in this framework or outline with suggestions or images or impulses or intuitions means by which you may access these subconscious abilities. Thus you create a bridge between your conscious and your unconscious so that there may be a movement of the deeper portions of yourself to the conscious portions of yourself. Thus, you are self-contained, in that you have both the need and the ability to meet that need contained within you.

Is there another query, my brother?

Yes, and thank you for that. The other query would be if you could elaborate further upon that where this question might be applicable to other seekers with the same sense of urgency that I have. For example, Doctors Brian Weiss, Michael Newton, and some of their past-life regression work. Could you possibly comment on the work that they’ve done, and if these sorts of techniques, if you will, could be used in a more collaborative or group way?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that this instrument has a good deal of information upon which we may draw for a response to this query. We are aware of the entities that you speak of who have engaged in the life-between-lives hypnotic regressions. In these regressions, you will note that there is the possibility of achieving the realization of the information that we spoke of in our previous query—the ability to determine pre-incarnative choices, the ability to look at how this programming has been chosen, and for what purpose it has been chosen. If entities are able and willing to be hypnotized to the degree that they are able to move into the deeper portions of their own unconscious minds, and call upon those forces which are available to guide them—the higher self, various guides, and angelic presences—then there may be light thrown upon the pre-incarnative choices so that they may be revealed to the seeker undergoing the hypnotic regression. This is a means by which to aid the memory that has been dimmed or cut off from the subconscious or unconscious mind by the veil of forgetting.

We may suggest that as the fourth density grows closer and closer in vibratory expression upon this planetary surface, as has been happening for many of what you would call years, that this veil of forgetting for many seekers of truth is becoming thinner and more penetrable. Thus, entities who previously may not have been able to be regressed and to achieve the hypnotic state of depth of singleness of consciousness necessary for such regression, may now be able to do so, for there is much more opportunity to be of service to others now upon this planetary entity that you call Gaia. This is another way of saying that there is much of confusion, of difficulty, of division, and of disharmony between many of these entities within your population who have aligned themselves with one side or another, each imaging the good against the evil.

Thus there is a great deal of need, as you are aware, of entities who are able to offer themselves in service to others, as is your great desire. We applaud this desire and recommend that those techniques that you are aware of that can be used in the hypnotic regression be utilized for the purpose of discovering how various entities have programmed, within their own being, the means by which the services that are so needed now, may be accessed and offered to all.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Yes. Thank you for that. To elaborate one step further, if possible, it sounds as if this may be an efficient technique to utilize to create that bridge or unlock the potential, as you mentioned. Is there a possible way to understand or explain further how this may be more beneficial to a variety of other selves—for example, a wanderer vs. a non-wanderer?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Those that you describe as the wanderers will have far more ability to be able to utilize the hypnotic state for the movement back into their own consciousness and through the abilities of the hypnotist to help them to achieve the deeper states of consciousness and access those talents that might be utilized in a more efficient fashion once they are realized, either consciously or unconsciously. Those entities which are not the same as what you describe as wanderers may also be able to utilize the hypnotic state depending upon their desire to seek that which is beyond their conscious reach. The desire is that which is of the most importance—the intention, the use of the will in a focused fashion to be of service in whatever means offers itself to those who would serve. Indeed, there are many ways to be of service in the incarnational pattern. The utilization of hypnotic regression is one of the more specialized forms of unlocking these talents.

We also suggest that the ability of each seeker of truth to consciously ask the higher self for guidance within the dream state, within the meditative state, and even within the conscious state, is also a means by which entities may be of service to others, for at this time there is the enhanced ability to utilize contact with other portions of the being—be it the higher self, the guides, and angelic presences, the loved ones who have passed over into the world of the spirit, and, indeed, the mind/body/spirit totality. These are sources of inspiration and information for any seeker who has the desire to give over the individual will in the sense of “not my will, but thy will by done.” That is able, then, to open a door to that which may previously have been shut to this entity.

There is also the opportunity of any entity who wishes to serve others to simply look about one and see what opportunities present themselves as a portion of the daily round of activities. As those of Ra have said, there are no mistakes. That which one sees and feels and experiences and encounters in the daily round of activities are opportunities to serve in even a small way, or a large way, it matters not, for each way of serving shares the love and the light of the one with all—for, indeed, you are all one being.

Any opportunity to serve, therefore, serves the one in all. If you can provide a loving service to any entity, then all entities, not only that entity, benefit, for your love vibrates in service to all, with all, because all have this same love within them.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Thank you for the answer, no.

We are Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, would you speak to how fear may be a necessary component in our incarnation, and in our polarization that allows us the opportunity to choose to release fear, and choose love?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The ability to benefit from fear is an ability that is expressed or possessed by one who is, shall we say, fearless, who is able to stand face to face with that which is feared and to see it as a portion of its own being, not as that which is separate from the being, for indeed, all are one. Whatever is feared is a shadow portion of one’s own being in a specific form that may seem incongruous with one holds as the highest and best ideals with which to live.

However, even the shadow side of the self has much to offer to any seeker of truth. It is the portion of the self that is most often feared and which takes the form of that in the outer world or illusion that then forms itself in the means by which the seeker may be able to utilize this form of fear to grow further into love and light by realizing in truth there is no thing to fear, for all is one. All is one in every aspect—both the positive and the negative. Love and light can be shared with all and benefit all without the need to fear any portion of the allness of one’s being.

Is there a final query at this time?

Thank you Q’uo. That was wonderful.

Yes, Q’uo, I have one further question. Is it possible for you to elaborate on how similar seekers can connect, contact, or communicate with each other to provide greater service to others in a community based or collaborative way?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, those who have a similar way of seeking, who are of like mind, may indeed join forces with each other in a manner in which there is perhaps, as you have suggested, a formalized arrangement of living, a community that is based upon shared values. If such an arrangement can be agreed upon by such seekers of truth, then you may see the ability to serve as having the magical expression or expansion of that which those of Ra have called “the doubling,” so that each entity doubles the ability of each other entity to be of service to those who are the focus of such a community of seekers of truth. Thus those who wish to offer themselves in a selfless manner, and to blend their energies and ideals and inspirations with those who share such ideals that are able to be of a greater service, for there is an expansive or doubling quality to each seeker’s efforts.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group and this instrument, for this instrument is beginning to tire. We thank you all, once again, for offering your queries, your love and your light to us. You are inspirations to us as we hope to be to you, for you move within an illusion of dense fog and misapprehension of almost every portion of the One Creator. And yet, within this fog, you provide the light of your own seeking and inspiration that not only lights your way in the darkness, but provides a light for those who have no light of their own. Thus you bring each other home. We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you again, my friends, for your love and light. We leave you in that love and light. Adonai vasu borragus.

