(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument, and we greet each of you in love and in light. It is our great pleasure and honor to be called to your group this afternoon, for you have the desire to know those portions of your journey which are yet unclear. We would be happy to share this information with you to the best of our ability, but first, as always, we would ask a favor of you, and that is that you would take those words and concepts which we speak and use them as you will. If any word or concept does not ring of truth to you, leave it behind without a second thought, for we would not be stumbling blocks upon your spiritual path. We are not ultimate authorities, my friends, we are but your brothers and your sisters who have moved a small distance further upon the same path that you travel than have you. We are happy to share that which has been our knowledge and the fruits of our journey. If you will do us this simple favor, we may speak freely then.

At this time, we would ask if there might be a query with which we may begin.

I have a query, Q’uo. Several of us in the circle today have been confronted with situations and people that have been challenging to us in our hearts, and people and situations that have tried essentially to cause harm to us. It seems that the heart is the means or the path of transforming that energy, that distortion. Can you tell us how to better do that, and how that might work in practice?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, the journey that each of you takes within this third-density illusion is a journey fraught with what seems to be difficulties, dangers, and doubts, for there is much confusion within this third-density illusion. The veil of forgetting works quite handily to shield each entity from the true knowledge of the universality and unity of all creation, the love that forms it from light, and how each is a portion of the One Creator. If these facets of truth were available to each at all times, your journey would be much easier, and yet would not produce the results that are possible when you delve into the difficulties of misperception, of misrepresentation, of confusion, of anger, and of the problems of everyday life which pound upon the consciousness in a certain fashion that makes it seem that understanding cannot be had, that harmony is an elusive possibility, that you cannot move your foot without tripping somehow upon another.

The relationships which you find yourselves engaged within as you move through your daily rounds of activities are those which you draw unto yourselves through the need you have to learn that which you do not know. That which you do not know oftentimes comes in the form of a problem, a miscommunication, an anger, a doubt, a fear, a jealousy. Many ways are there to misperceive another entity’s essence and purpose in your life pattern, for there is much which cannot be clearly fathomed about any situation.

All situations in which you find yourself are many-layered. There are portions of the situation which are perceived only subconsciously and which color the proceedings and the interactions and communication in a fashion which is basically unknowable and yet can be felt. There are other portions of the relationship and attempted communication that are perceived with more clarity, and yet can be seen in more than one way so that there is no certainty of clear communication. There are other levels of communication that are more of the surface nature which seem to be clear and seem to be as perceived.

However, as you move into more intense communications with entities which seem to be operating from the lower energy centers, or operating in an unconscious fashion, without a clear direction of purpose, or the goals of their interaction, then it is that you must open yourself in some fashion to receive that energy of communication as clear or as muddy as it may be within your own heart and mind, so that in some way you may begin to order and fashion an understanding, a perception of what is being offered to you. The initial offerings may seem to be harsh or difficult or cold or calculating, however, if you move further and further into a clearer and calmer communication with any entity that stands before you, there is always the opportunity for moving closer to the heart of this entity and to the heart of your own being. This is the key. This is the goal of your incarnation and of this illusion, to eventually find the path to the heart that connects you both, to the heart that connects you with all things; for it is the heart, the ability to love without condition all those about you and all things about you which is the path to the fourth density of love and understanding.

This graduation into this higher realm, or vibrational nature of reality, is the purpose of each incarnation that is being played out at this time on your planet, for this is likened unto a school room. The entire creation may be seen as an educational system where you begin to discover more and more the truth that you and all beings are one—one in the Infinite Creator that has made all things, all of the creation, all entities from itself in order that it might know itself more fully, with greater purity and greater intensity.

Thus do each of you play your part within this third-density illusion, and indeed, within all densities of light, for each choice that you make within these illusions allows you to know more of who you are, more of who the Creator is, and the Creator to know more of its own beingness through your freewill choices. Thus, it takes a great deal of effort to make that which is unclear, clear; to find love where there seems to be none; to find companionship where there seems to be only argumentation. Thus, the effort that you make is that which is called the polarization of your consciousness toward service to others in this regard.

We would ask if there might be a further query, my brother.

I have a follow-up question, Q’uo. I’ve noticed in some situations the communication of the other entity’s energy to me, and I find myself, or find it being transformed in the heart, and processed as I tune into their energy. Is this helpful to the other entity?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, if you are able to utilize the ability to tune into another entity’s heart or being in any fashion whatsoever, this will give you the chance to share in a more deep manner that loving essence that is within your own heart, for as you are more familiar with another entity, then that familiarity can create a path of communication that is clearer than a path that does not have this type of familiarity and awareness of the being of another entity.

Is there another query at this time?

No, Q’uo, thank you.

We thank you, my brother. Is there another query?

Q’uo, the New Age community abounds with declarations that the energy is ratcheting up, or waves are coming in, or intensities are increasing. It’s such a repeating and generic theme in recent decades that many of us tend to dismiss these assertions. Lately, however, I’ve seen so many examples of people moving through significant shadow-facing tests and trials, or even dark nights of the soul. I don’t know if this is my own particular bubble, or if there is a larger phenomenon at play right now. Could Q’uo speak to the nature of this particular chapter in Earth’s history, meaning roughly the latter half of 2018? Is there something that characterizes this period? Are people being purified and tested more than usual?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, as what you call time moves forward in its progression of beingness, there is within this planetary influence the continuing engulfing of the planet by those vibrations which are significant in heralding the fourth density of love and understanding. This intensity of vibrations that continues to surround and enhance the planet itself is a feature of the clock-like face upon the galactic spiral of endlessness, shall we say.

There are sources of cosmic streamings coming to this planet at this time from each of the stars in your sky, from all of the creation, as a matter of fact. This vibratory change that is now becoming more and more noticeable for those entities which have the sensitivity to perceive them is occurring in order that those who are able to be aware of such energies might utilize them, either in a conscious or an unconscious fashion. Those entities who are aware consciously of the process of their evolution may become aware of these vibrations as well, and be able to incorporate them into their daily life pattern, knowing that there are enhanced energies all about, and that these energies serve much as do a magnifying glass upon that which it is focused. These energies offer those who are upon the path of service to others the chance to enhance the service by receiving the catalyst of the daily round of activities which may seem, at first glance, to be as it has been said previously in this session, to be of a difficult or even a negative nature.

These challenges are opportunities to exercise the ability to open the heart without reservation or condition to those entities about one, to engage in an interaction and communication that will allow the resolving of disharmonies that are provided as catalyst to enhance the progress on the spiritual path by any entity aware of such possibilities.

The subconscious perception of such energies is utilized by those entities who have not yet become consciously aware that what they are doing on this planet at this time is to utilize all catalyst for the purpose of opening their own hearts in love and service to others. The unconscious perception of these energies oftentimes is featured in difficulties for such entities, as for any entity, conscious or unconscious, of the process of evolution.

However, for those who are not consciously aware that these energies are available to enhance their own spiritual path, there is oftentimes the difficult of an entity in facing the self as it is, balanced or imbalanced, so that whatever healing might be available through the application of the vibrations of love and understanding to the imbalance is perhaps not perceived clearly, and the self then is not also perceived but realizes that there is some effort necessary in order to be able to achieve a more harmonious existence with its fellow beings. Thus, in such an unconscious entity there may be more difficulties that are not easily resolved, and may, indeed, form themselves into what you would call distortions or diseases within the physical vehicle that will hopefully catch the conscious attention of such an entity so that it may become more aware of the opportunities which such difficulties present.

Is there another query, my brother?

Whooee, that was good, thank you. Yes, among the energies at play at present, there is one prominent thread catalyzing many people that I’ve crossed paths with, and it seems to do with intimacy, love, transparency, openness, vulnerability, and the question about the boundaries of relationships. One general term that in part speaks to this is polyamory, though I suspect that what I’m noticing has larger metaphysical origin and implication. Can Q’uo speak to this?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, it is a possibility that many entities may become aware of the expanded ability to share love and light with each entity around one. However, in many cases, the beginnings of this sharing of love, of comradeship, of intimacy, of dedication to similar goals, of seeing the life path as joining in one fashion or another, begins in the realm of the multiplicity of partners in order that the beginnings of the sharing of love and light may be started, shall we say. These are oftentimes the first inklings of the nature of true all-compassionate love and acceptance of the entities about one.

However, after the certain portion of your time has elapsed and experience has shown that there are difficulties of communication or problems of perception that persist with the, shall we say, third-density experience of companionship that is now attempting to be transmuted to the fourth-density experience of unconditional love, oftentimes there are misperceptions of the ability of an entity to give this unconditional love, even unto the point of the romantic experience and expression of love, to more than one entity; for it is inculcated into the third-density experience that the fidelity of one mate to another is to be desired. The fourth-density experience of this loving expression of companionship and dedication to fidelity is oftentimes made more difficult to express in a manner which is efficient in the polarization of each entity’s consciousness.

Thus, oftentimes, it is necessary to move through what you have called the polyamorous expressions of energies in more than one direction or to more than one partner. Oftentimes it will be discovered that it is more efficient to remain in the monogamous relationship, for this relationship offers a greater intensity of the use of catalyst so that the catalyst may not be escaped, shall we say, and put upon the shoulders of many instead of upon the shoulders of the one for whom it is generated.

We are aware that this is a concept that is not absolutely clear within the mind of each entity that pursues the expression of love and commitment to more than one entity. The ability to focus upon one mate is that which is found in the higher densities to be the most efficient means of polarization of consciousness. 1 However, there are oftentimes the experiments with more than one mate that begins the fourth-density experience. There are no right or wrong answers for any entity in this regard. Each must discover for itself that which is most efficient for the self to move forward in the opening of the heart and the sharing of the love therein.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Thank you. I have one, but I want to give another in the group opportunity if they have one.

I have a final query, Q’uo. Could you briefly describe what Andara crystals are, and what their uses may be?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We shall attempt to give this instrument an image that will be helpful in interpreting these crystals. The image is that which receives light in its basic form of life-giving prana or intelligent energy. These crystals of the Andara variety have the ability to absorb this primary type of light, and to store it in a fashion which allows a type of penetration of the red and violet protective ray of energy surrounding one needing healing, so that this protective shell is relaxed and removed to the degree that a new configuration of mind, body and spirit may be chosen by the one to be healed. Thus, these crystals function much as does the pyramid shape in the ability to penetrate the red violet protective shell and enhance the chances of healing occurring according to the choice of the one to be healed. 2

Is there another query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my brother.

Is there another query at this time?

Does the planetary population at the end of a third-density cycle begin laying the groundwork for a social memory complex, and if so, how do those in third density begin this groundwork or walk those baby steps?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. These steps upon your planetary sphere have begun some of your years ago, as entities began incarnating here that have been able to reach the graduation into fourth density upon other planetary spheres. As these entities with the dual-activated bodies partake in your third-density illusion, they begin to exhibit qualities that are oftentimes described as psychic abilities, which are not readily available to entities who have only the third-ray, yellow-ray body activated.

Thus, as these entities begin their journey through the third density, finding their mates and producing their offspring, entities of greater, shall we say, activation of the green-ray energy center are then birthed through them in order to produce a higher level of consciousness, shall we say, and the physical vehicle that is able to house it and express it in the experience of the third-density illusion. This also has a quality of interaction with other entities of a like vibration, so that there is set up between such entities a better means of accessing the higher levels of vibration that are available to those who are of the dual activated body nature.

The communication, the ability to express love, the far-sightedness that sees new ways of approaching old problems, and the ability to enhance the growth of the vibrations of love wherever seen within the environment, are those means by which individual entities form group projects and group expressions of higher consciousness that then produce the fruits of the heart: the cooperative communities, the giving and receiving of love and inspiration from all about one, the ability to accept that which seems unacceptable, to have the feeling of love to be the end result of all interactions with other entities that no interaction is allowed to stop its transformation until the ability to give the love and light of the One Creator is experienced by all within the vicinity of each project or person that is able to shine this love and light from within its own being.

Is there a final query at this time?

Very grateful for your replies, Q’uo, and not from me, thank you so much.

I have a final query for you. In regards to what you were just talking about in forming communities and in general on the spiritual path, it seems like opening the heart also tends to be associated with forming bonds with other people. But some people are what we would call loners, or have solitary tendencies and might feel more comfortable apart from communities or on their own, and experiencing life in a more solitary way. Do these people have a role within this transition to a social memory complex, or are they at a disadvantage on the spiritual path some way?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Each entity of the nature of which you describe—that entity which seeks the solitary experience, is an entity which has within its own being the means by which to use the solitary experience to make a connection within the heart of all beings if this is the desire of such an entity. This is the path of the adept.

Many times, however, entities seeking solitude, are seeking solitude to be away from other entities, in which case there is hopefully within the preincarnative choices of such an entity the opportunity to have an experience that will move the perception of the value of solitude further and further along or toward the joining with others in group efforts. The adept, however, is the entity which moves in a seeming solitary pattern in order that it might find within itself that great communion of all entities that is found within the heart of one who knows the One Infinite Creator. This seeking and finding of the one within, then, is oftentimes achieved in the solitary journey.

However, when this joining with the One has been successful, there is, at that point, the desire to share this feeling of the presence of the One Creator with all entities about it. Thus, such an adept has programmed for itself the path to unity with all through seeming separation from all. Thus, there are two possibilities for those who seek solitude: one seeks every entity within the self that is the One Great Self, though the other entities who seek the self only for the self, the small self, shall we say, are with the possibility of remaining in a solitary configuration. However, there is always the opportunity for each entity to find another path to the surrounding community when the solitary path does not yield the sustenance to the heart that has been hoped for as it was chosen as the life pattern.

We are most grateful to each entity here this afternoon, for inviting our presence. We fear that we have somewhat worn out this instrument, for it is doubtful of some of its concepts at this point being transmitted clearly. Thus, we shall take our leave of this instrument. We leave each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

Ra: “The harvest from the previous creation was that which included the male and female mind/body/spirit. It was the intention of the original Logoi that entities mate with one another in any fashion which caused a greater polarization. It was determined, after observation of the process of many Logoi, that polarization increased many fold if the mating were not indiscriminate. Consequent Logoi thusly preserved a bias towards the mated relationship which is more characteristic of more disciplined personalities and of what you may call higher densities. The free will of each entity, however, was always paramount and a bias only could be offered.” #84.22. See also #83.3 and #86.20. ↩

According to the German Institute for Gem Testing, Andara crystals have man-made origins, and are a type of glass rather than a crystal. At the end of this session, Q’uo mentions that the instrument was depleted and doubtful of some of the concepts being transmitted. ↩

