(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and greet each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are most honored once again today to be invited to join in your circle of seeking. We are always pleased to have an opportunity to serve you in this manner, for it is our own way of progressing along the path of the evolution of the mind, the body, and the spirit, by serving others, for as we serve others, we serve the One Creator, who is in all.

As always, we shall begin our session of seeking and serving with you by asking you to do us a small favor, and that is, as we speak our words and concepts to you, take those which have meaning to you and leave behind those that do not. We are not ultimate authorities, my friends, we are but your brothers and sisters who have walked a bit further along the same path that you tread, and we would not wish to place any stumbling block upon your path. So if you will do us this favor, we will feel free to speak that which is ours to offer.

At this time, we shall ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Greetings, Q’uo. I have a question. I’ve observed, especially in the last year or two, when seekers are gathered with open hearts and open mind to seek God, that I enter into this state, especially when there is many seekers, of Christ Consciousness, or witnessing. And many of my, I suppose what you could call “psychic abilities” are greatly enhanced, and I find myself existing in a place that I image to look a lot like 4D, and I wonder if you would at least comment on that.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is a very interesting query, for it is one which many would not feel they have the opportunity to ask—and yet, we suggest, that each person, in some degree, serves as do you serve, in these sessions of seeking. That is, each serves according to ability.

Because you have been honored and privileged to perceive the One Creator, or the Christ Consciousness, in a fashion which has made its profound effect known to you through your own experiences, then you have the ability, in these circles of seeking, to provide your own service in the direction of what is often called “the holding of the space or the place”, not just in space and time here in this room, but in the metaphysical realms where we exist, and where your higher self exists, and each higher self exists, so that you are able to provide a stabilizing energy that holds the contact through this instrument in a steadier fashion than would be possible were you not to be offering the service that you offer.

This is a kind of channeling of the intelligent energy which moves through you very freely at this time, and in your normal round of activities as well, but is most pronounced when you are engaged in a spiritual pursuit in which entities are attempting to enlarge their point of view, shall we say, the scope of that inner and outer vision that leads each seeker of truth further and further along the path of seeking and serving the one in all. Thus, the service that you offer is most helpful, not only to this contact as we speak through this instrument, but is also helpful to each seeker within this circle of seeking.

And now, we would speak to each seeker that also sits within this circle, saying that you also serve in a same manner, however, perhaps with less intelligent energy moving through your centers of energy as do move through the one known as Z’s centers. Each entity brings a certain quality of beingness to the circle of seeking, so that the entities that have come here as individuals partake in the creation of a greater self that is representative of a greater being, much like your higher self, combining with each other higher self within the circle of seeking. Thus each enhances the process of being and of seeking of each other entity within the circle of seeking.

Is there a further query, my brother?

I feel, Q’uo, that the fourth-density embodiment of community is available to us if we merely gather and make it so. Can you speak as to the need for that at this time?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, you speak that which is most salient at this time for the population of your Mother Earth, for the time of fourth density experience is not just at hand, but is here, now, available to each. There is much ignorance of this possibility amongst the great majority of the population of this planet. Thus, the transition into the fourth density is occurring with some difficulty in the birthing process, shall we say, for there are energies available to all that may enhance each entity’s seeking. But if entities are not consciously seeking to expand their awareness and find the openhearted love, that unconditional love that signals the harvestability into the fourth density of love and understanding, then oftentimes such entities will retreat into their own being, into the orange-ray energy center, so that they may defend themselves against what they see as being a kind of losing of the personality, a losing of that which they cherish, that which they cannot see beyond.

Thus, if entities who can see beyond the existence of the individual ego within each entity, and see the Creator within all and begin to form an openhearted bonding with all such entities, this bonding can serve as a kind of fulcrum by which the energies of separation may begin to be lifted away from those who are divided, each from the other, and make it more possible for such entities to also be able to enjoy and transmit this higher level of vibration that is now engulfing your Planet Earth.

Thus, as you make efforts to blend your beingness with others in a kind of group mind as much as is possible within this third-density illusion, you are setting an example. You are showing the way and making it more likely that others shall follow, as they see the fruits of your labors, being that which is love and light freely shared with all. There is this quality of love and light within all entities, for the Creator exists within all entities. Thus, even those who have shut themselves off in a conscious fashion, from each other, still have that love and light within and can feel the resonance of it with your love and light as it is expressed in a group manner.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Not at this time, Q’uo, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother.

Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. I was hoping that you could talk about the role that story-telling plays on our spiritual paths, particularly modern story-telling that might not have explicit spiritual themes but is maybe seen more as entertainment, but people are drawn to it for some reason, and these creators who create this content usually are tapping into deep excitement and a place of creativity. I was wondering if you could talk about the dynamic of story-telling and the spiritual path?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again, this is a query that is most helpful to have explicated at this time within your third-density illusion, for the story is that which all entities are familiar with.

Each entity at some point in their raising up, from child to teenager to adult, will find the story engrossing for the mind, perhaps even enlarging the heart, opening the intuition, releasing the imagination, to see that which is normally not seen, to be able to conceive of moving one’s own self into such a situation to see what would happen. Each child is born with this curiosity that is enlivened by the story-telling of all those teachers, friends, parents, and so forth, that attempt at this time, in the child’s early upbringing, to enhance that upbringing by sharing the story, perhaps because it has had a great effect upon him or her as well, or perhaps simply because they feel this is something for the child.

However, as the child increases in age and experience, remembering stories that have been told and have inspired the child to think in ways that were fun, joyful, expansive, sharing with others, playing with others, being more than the simple self, conceived by most entities at some point as they grow older in their aging process.

Thus, the story-telling is that which enlivens the most creative and expansive aspects of each entity who hears the story, who tells the story, who imagines the self being in the story, being a character perhaps within another story created by the self in the times of solitude, so that there is the entertaining of the self by the self as the self expands into those realms of imagination, of playfulness, of giddiness, of incredible oneness with all that exists—for this is possible, depending upon each entity and the story so told and so absorbed within the beingness of the entity hearing the story.

Thus, we can speak no more highly of means by which the evolutionary process may be enhanced within your illusion, by telling stories and continuing to tell stories as the aging process grows older and older in your terms, so that the stories perhaps become more involved in the way in which spiritual principles may be introduced as an adventure is undertaken, as a difficulty is faced, as the self is challenged in one way or another to go beyond what it thought possible previous to hearing any story at all.

Thus, we encourage the telling of stories—the telling of stories that come from the heart, and speak to other hearts, for each heart within this illusion has the ability to open itself completely in unconditional love to all other entities about one and to the self as well, seeing the One Infinite Creator indwelling in all entities, in all essences, in all things, and within the self, because the story so told speaks to that which is true, to that which is known, at the heart of every being: that we are, indeed, all one.

Is there another query, my brother?

Not related to that, thank you, that was great.

I am Q’uo. We are grateful for your query, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Moving on to questions from seekers from all over the world. G. asks: “What can block the red ray?”

I am Q’uo, and am aware of the query, my brother. The red-ray energy center within all beings within your third-density illusion, and indeed, within all beings within all densities of illusion, concerns the ability of the entity as it is to survive, in one fashion or another, in order that it might have its beinginess and be able to express it, in whatever way is unique to it.

This survival mechanism is also closely related to the sexual reproduction that produces the physical vehicle that is then able to have the energy centers activated at some point within the third-density experience, as all entities beginning third density have the red, the orange, and the yellow centers activated to some degree, with the goal, then, being to use the intelligent energy of the One Infinite Creator, or that which is often called “prana,” to refine the open or active nature of each energy center until each is activated enough that there is a sufficient supply of intelligent energy to move further and further upward along the chakra system or the energy system, into the green-ray energy center.

This, of course, requires a great deal of metaphysical work within the third-density illusion, [with the] the lower energy centers—beginning with the red, which is the foundation of all that is to come for each entity within the third-density illusion, and allow this intelligent energy to activate the red and to secure the survival of the entity within its own mind and beingness. And then move into the orange energy center where the individual, which is alive and well and seeking to learn and grow and share, becomes involved in one-to-one relationships of an intense level, perhaps of the emotional level, so that there is the ability to expand the energies from the simple survival unto the sharing with one other being, that which is most meaningful to the seeker of truth. And, if this can be done, then the energies may move yet higher into the yellow energy center, where the individual seeker begins, then, to explore the groups that it finds itself located within, beginning first, of course, with the family, perhaps moving to the school, to the neighborhood, to the workplace, to the teams, and so forth.

Thus is the entity prepared to move even further along, or upward along, the energy centers, so that the catalyst, the food for growth in the daily round of activities that is processed by each conscious seeker may then offer the seeker the opportunity to move into the heart, or the green-ray energy center, and begin to expand its ability to receive and transmit the unconditional love of the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a further query, my brother?

We have a question from J who asks: “What determines how much pain, or how much catalyst one can handle if one never becomes aware of their preincarnative intention?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would consider the possibility that an entity who feels that it is not aware of preincarnative choices, may not be aware that it is enacting certain functions or processing of catalyst that does recognize preincarnative choices upon an unconscious level. For most entities within the third-density illusion, this is the case, for it is the subconscious or unconscious mind which is completely aware of all preincarnative choices, and has the function of coloring any catalyst that comes to a seeker of truth in a certain way that allows that seeker to look upon the catalyst in a manner that is congruent with pre-incarnative choices.

Thus, the entity so utilizing the catalyst, may not be aware, consciously, that what it is seeing, as it looks at its daily round of activities and how it perceives them, is a perception that is, indeed, in alignment with its choices made prior to the incarnation. Thus, if entities will simply, in the meditative state, at the end of the day, observe those activities which made a mark upon the mind that moved the entity to remember in some intellectual or emotional fashion that which occurred, then there may be the perception that a certain amount of experience of pre-incarnative choices has occurred.

As this process of evaluating each day’s activities occurs in meditation at the end of the day, there may seem to be a certain kind of pattern evolving within the experience of such an entity so that the pattern expresses the nature of the pre-incarnative choice that has been experienced by the entity. Thus, paying attention to what is occurring in the life experience is the surest means by which to become aware of those choices one has made with the hopes that the learning of them will move the entity further along the path of the evolution of mind, body, and spirit, eventually resulting in the opening of the heart, and the movement into the fourth density of love and understanding.

Is there a final query at this time?

One that’s a little bit longer, L writes in: “We are encouraged to accept and evaluate the thoughts that arise in the mind according to the resonance we perceive. In the channeling of June 20th, [2018], there was a point made about allowing oneself to go deeper into meditative states and accepting all images and thoughts that might arise. However, in past material, I have also found Q’uo speak about the intellect as a horse and our deep consciousness or higher self as the rider who has the ability to use the horse and move through the journey, but that often in our peoples, it happens that the horse runs away out of its own accord, and it is the rider who follows the mind instead.

How can we achieve a balance between knowing when to give full freedom of exploration to the mind, and when to hold thoughts back as a precaution or as we work on disciplining our personality?“

I am Q’uo, and am aware of the query, my brother. We find some confusion within the query and will attempt to speak in a manner which we hope will be helpful.

The rider, the one who seeks the truth within the conscious realms of its experience, is one which is attempting to move into those areas of both the conscious and subconscious minds in a manner which will be able to perceive directions, or qualities, or resonances, that are present in the unconscious mind that may enhance conscious discoveries of experience that is felt to be helpful by the seeker in its daily round of activities. We would suggest a spontaneous response in the clearest possible blue ray activity of the entity speaking to itself and to others, balanced by the green ray compassion, so that there is the freely given and received love and communication and inspiration from and to such an entity. The horse does not need to run away in order for the conscious seeker to be able to utilize the situation in which it finds itself. If one can ride the unconscious mind, shall we say, or explore into it as the doughty seeker of truth, then the ability to receive helpful direction is enhanced by the interaction in a free and open manner between the conscious and unconscious selves, and between the conscious self and all other selves within the illusion in which the entity lives, and moves, and has its being.

We do not suggest holding back on thoughts unless there is the possibility that such thoughts might become injurious to another entity in some fashion. This is not usually clearly perceived by most seekers of truth, for most seekers are unable to see beyond the immediate effects of such words or actions, and to see that the initial difficulty that might occur in response to such words or actions could later be worked upon in such a way that a great deal of learning and expansion of the mind is possible.

Thus, our recommendation that for most entities and most occasions, that freely shared love and light through words and actions be the process by which each seeker moves further and further along the journey of unity with the One Infinite Creator.

At this time, we shall bring this session to a close, for this instrument is beginning to feel the tiredness of the physical vehicle. We thank each, once again, for being so receptive to our offerings of service, and so joyous in your very being. We always take a great deal of pleasure in immersing ourselves in the joy that is part and parcel of this group at all times, for when you come together in love and in light, and in the seeking of the Creator in all, there is a natural release of some portion of that indwelling love and light and unity that signifies the One Infinite Creator in all so that there is a blending of energies producing light that moves as a beacon into the heavens high above this dwelling place. We thank each of you for this grand opportunity to share our being with your being. We leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth in peace and in power, in praise and in thanksgiving. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

