(K channeling)

We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, whom we serve together with you.

It is, as always, our great privilege to work with you and to share with this group a new seeking. When you are seeking together, you are most congruent, though it may not always seem so to you in your illusion as individuals, and we take great joy in being able to share with this congruency of seeking.

We thank you for your dedication as individuals and as a group to the spiritual work to which you have dedicated your lives. It is a great service that you perform. But again, you are not aware of what you do and when what you do may be of help to others. We thank you for the service you perform both in aiding those about you in the third density and in offering to us the opportunity to be of service also, for it is rare that we may find such a group as this through whom we may speak as directly as we are able to in the vocal channel.

This instrument desires to know when it is being of service and we are aware that each of you has also had this desire or questions. We reiterate to you that what is of importance upon a metaphysical level is the desire to be of service, and the purity of the intent in the offering of the self and the dedication of the self to the work and to the purification of the self for the work.

The services you perform are many and yet they are one. They are many in that they manifest through a variety of activities which you perform throughout your days and these activities may seem to be largely different, one from the other. Your service may vary with a smile given to a stranger you pass on the street, to a look of love exchanged with one who is close, to the more obvious form of teaching and the vocal challenge which exists.

All these seemingly various services you perform are but one and that is the radiation of the love of the Creator, which pervades you and your illusion, have you but the ability to perceive. This is your service; to aid in the perception of the love of the Creator in yourself and in those about you. Is it not simple, my friends? Why then do you spend time worrying over whether you have been able to be of service?

When a being is full of the love of the Creator, and as you radiate and manifest the essence of that being, those who come in contact with you, whether knowingly or unknowingly, will see that which you have to offer. That is who you are—that is the Creator, who is love.

Now, there is much confusion in this illusion about the concept of love. We are aware of the differences in the expression of the concept in your various languages and of the various types of love expressed as different concepts.

When we speak of the love of the Creator, the metaphor perhaps most analogous which we may use to attempt to explain to you the metaphysical nature of love is that of the radiance of your sun. The sun does not necessarily do anything. The sun is. It radiates the essences of its being. It radiates heat and light and gives life by its radiance. This is the nature of the Creator’s love—giving, simply and freely as part of the nature of its being.

This is the love that you may also radiate to those about you. The nature of your being does not necessarily do, it just is. It radiates this love. So, all you have to do, my friends, in order to be of service is not to rush about finding various services to perform, but merely to look to the heart of yourselves to perceive that which your true nature is; to allow that perception and realization to so pervade you that your awareness of it becomes also clear to those about you.

This is why we speak of the importance of knowing yourself. The true nature of the self is known. A certain transparency of the self is achieved; the penetration of the walls of third density illusion which surround you in the form of the bodies and the various societal conceptions and misconceptions of the nature of the individual and the illusion. When the true nature of the self radiates through the self that has become transparent, penetrating through the illusion, it shines out as a beacon into the thick darkness of the illusion that covers your planet.

We are aware of many groups such as yours that are attempting to do this work on an individual and on a group level. And it is this dedication on an individual and a group basis that is lightening the consciousness of your planet.

There are those that say that the small lights surely will not make any difference in the vast darkness. We know great beacons of light in the history of your illusion—the teaching of the one known as Jesus and other masters of the various religions and spiritual paths.

The individual may become discouraged in comparing oneself to ones such as these, feeling oneself to have but a small light to offer. We say to you that no light is so small it makes no difference. No matter the size of the light, it still shines and as you band together in your efforts, the effects of the light that you project are multiplied.

We will at this time transfer to the one known as Jim, thanking this sister for the willingness to receive our contact. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and reach you again in the love and light through this instrument. We are very pleased with the progress that was made this evening by the one known as K. We are aware of the difficulty with which the contact was initiated but we felt that it was worth the effort to remain with this instrument and to give encouragement that it was indeed ready to make the initial contact.

At this time we would offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any queries which remain. May we begin with a query at this time?

I know that everything you’ve said about life being worthwhile no matter what is true, but how can you tell that to yourself when you’re feeling really down?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed this is a question that few entities have the opportunity to ask upon a prolonged basis such as you have had, my sister.

The very asking of the question is an event within the consciousness of the entity that asks it. That offers to the self the opportunity for the gradual transformation of the point of view. The feeling of great pain and discomfort which limits one’s potential or activity are qualities which cause the attention to be focused in a manner unlike most experiences which you will have in your lifetime.

The intensive effort necessary to maintain the consciousness and the attitude and the desire to continue is an effort which, along with the asking of the question, causes a kind of tempering of the will while at the same time providing the will a further testing that will in the mundane sense seem to be discouraging, for as the will is tested and stretched to the limits for that entity in its exercise, it will seem to the entity that there is little that is left for the generation of further desire.

This is a most intensive testing. It is one which you have set before yourself as a means by which you shall further purify your desires regarding service to others and in a personal sense, regarding your acceptance of yourself for your ability to endure. The product of such a test is ultimately quite simple in that the entity has persevered long enough to give itself the opportunity to do so once again.

There seems to be no end to this kind of work upon the self. For the pain-filled situation tends to gather a kind of momentum and has the overall effect on the physical vehicle of wearing it down so that its energy reserves are low. This is the work of those few who wish to so purify their own vehicles that the sense of self and the security of the self are seen as those things which are fleeting, and the tension then is driven further inward in order that the focus might continue to seek the truer heart of that which sustains all that is.

This in its purest sense, or essence, is that indefinable quality which we frequently call love. Because of your love for the Creator and the son of the Creator whom you revere as your savior, the one known as Jesus, the Christ, you continue day by day, moment by moment to make the choice to serve in ways that are unknown to you, ways that are provided simply by your existence, moment to moment, you choose, moment by moment to continue and to continue and to continue, though there is little in the way of good reasons that the intellect may provide, that analysis may uncover. Yet there is that unquenchable thirst for the waters of love and by seeking the cup of such you radiate that which is not apparent to your eyes, but on the physical plane is obviously quite apparent as a desire which has been tested, tempered and found to be true.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister.

Do you have any suggestions for me to teach channeling in a better way or [on] improving my technique?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are very pleased with the openness with which this group approaches the learning and teaching of vocal channeling. There is the perception on the part of each instrument that a variety of techniques is most helpful in this process so that the training of new instruments might always contain some element of that which is familiar to serve as assurance for the new instrument and some element of that which is unfamiliar or new in order that there might be the opportunity at each working for the new instrument and indeed for each instrument to expand the abilities in this area.

Thus, we would not offer at this time any specific suggestion for the improving of this process for we are well pleased that the process is one which is firmly underway and we really are exceedingly happy with the progress that has been shown by each instrument and especially by the new instrument.

Is there a further query, my sister?

[No further questions.]

I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Again, is there a further query at this time?

[No further questions.]

I am Q’uo, we thank again each entity for taking part in this process this evening and for generating a desire to come together for a working which removes the consciousness for a short time from those areas of the mundane activity in which you find yourselves ever more dutifully and intensively immersed. As your world about you tends to move you as though you were a pawn, it is a joyful sight for us to observe that there are those such as yourselves that are willing to move themselves from the dizzying round of activities to find a quiet place within that there might be the opportunity for the settling of much catalyst; the processing of it into experience; the giving of thanks to the one Creator and the generation of the desire to serve that one Creator in whatever manner is appropriate.

It is easy in your illusion to lose yourself in detail for much requires the attention within your illusion in order to accomplish what you call your daily round of activities and within such detail focusing of the consciousness it is easy to forget that there is a wholeness, a rhythm, and a pattern to the life which gives it stability and to which one may retreat in silence and in solitude in order to enjoy the nourishment there.

Again we thank you for inviting our presence again this evening. We look forward, as you say, to these gatherings and we are eager to join you each time that we are called.

At this time, we shall take our leave from this group. We leave you, as always, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the ones of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.

