Topics: The tension between faith and the rational mind; the congruency of faith and intelligent infinity.

[Due to this session's length, it is split between two parts. This part continues from March 17, 2026, Part 1.]

(Gary channeling)

We are the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we give our gratitude for the long channeling experience of the one known as Austin, and to this circle for carving out time in lives we know to be very busy in service to that which this group and its associates incarnated in order to carry out.

We would ask if there is a query to which we may respond? We are Q’uo.

Yes, Q’uo, I have some queries as these are also somewhat complex, so thank you for bearing with me.

The first one is inspired by something that our friends of Halos said in our last session, so I’ll read you the quote. Halos said: “Faith starts out as positive belief, but becomes a surety, a knowing beyond intellectual knowledge, a transcendence of the rational mind and the world system whereby the entity has leapt into the air into nothing and rests upon not a structure of logical thought or scientific theory, but in that eternity which is forever beyond space and time, which has before, which was before space and time, and which is one’s true nature. Faith is the bridge to this reality, your deeper nature, and through this bridge or portal or doorway, one who is upon the positive path is more centered in their own power.”1

So my question is, when reckoning with real-world situations, attempting to navigate our world with discernment and care, it can seem foolish to let go of a structure of logical thought, as Halos called it. I don’t believe the Confederation would necessarily encourage seekers to abandon all consideration of the rational, but I also note that you seem to emphasize that faith is absolutely central and outside the bounds of logical thought, while logical thought is not upheld as equally central and important for the seeker.

It would be easy to interpret this as an appeal to release logic and rationality in favor of faith. So can you please elaborate on this tension and help me understand the proper place of logic and rational thought in relationship to faith?

We are those of Q’uo, and give thanks for this well-fashioned question, which is one which the mystical seeker is inclined to grapple with at many points in their journey. For the seeking of the One Creator, which those in this room and those who read our words and many around the world are presently engaged in, is, in other words, a mystical journey, and is ultimately one of faith—for the third-density entity behind the veil comes to the Creator not through a logical structure, per se, but through the leap into midair, the opening of the door of faith. But you are right to note that for the separation-bound entity, there seems to be a tension and relationship between these seemingly mutually exclusive modes of being.

We might begin to attempt to, in principle, speak to the path of reconciling these two seeming categories of thought, that being faith and the rational mind, by first speaking to the function and the domain of the rational mind. That which you and those of Halos have described as logic may in some limited but fruitful ways be likened to computation, in metaphor. This portion of the third-density wiring—that being the brain as a correlate of the mind itself—is a function of problem-solving, shall we say; a means by which the entity may analyze the information available to it and solve the problem or a set of problems that may be in front of it. To find ways to get one’s needs met. To understand, in big air quotes, the world about one through this sort of computational analysis whereby data is being stored and retrieved and synthesized and discarded and distorted and accepted or rejected and so forth.

And upon its level, this functionality, as we have briefly but not sufficiently described, serves its purpose. It is, in short, useful to the entity. However, it is clothed by and made of a realm of separation, a realm of illusion; a conceptual idea about reality that is not reality, that is removed from reality.

This creates a game or a stage play within which entities have the pleasure of pretending that they are separate. And from this fictional premise of separation, determining how they shall relate to one another. This great circumstance producing, as you know, the opportunity to polarize one’s consciousness.

This logical mind, however, of itself, unrelieved by faith, remains bound within a world of separation. It creates the separation by parsing out a unified and indivisible reality into seeming disconnected or relatively connected parts, with more or less independent existence; and thus builds a whole paradigm, and indeed a whole world and universe on a premise that has no actual ground in reality.

The logical mind ascribes to the passing and temporary images that it sees as having substance and solidity. And thus strives forever, however futile the exercise may be, to find lasting satisfaction, meaning, freedom from pain, and happiness while being identified with the illusion. It, this logic-bound mind, is often caught, according even to the best of its own thinking, in patterns of grasping at that which is not real, and expressing aversion towards that which is not real—the inevitable result of which is the hallmark of the third-density experience, that being suffering.

On and on, this game can be played and the logic applied to analysis of a situation in ways that seem to bear fruit and produce for one results. And indeed, this is the case. It is rather that those results, however they may help one to navigate the horizontal plane of existence in one lateral move after another, shall we say…

We pause to allow this instrument a break, as he has lost this thread to some degree.

We were speaking of the usefulness of the logical or analytical mind in the third-density illusion, in terms of the results it produces for the entity which engages this faculty. But those results, useful though they are upon their own plane, will, unrelieved by transcendence, keep the identity—we correct this instrument—keep the entity’s awareness inextricably identified with the world of form and its companion, suffering.

For the entity who has experienced awakening to their inner light—be it, more often than not, through the catalyst of suffering, or whatever else may have awakened this inner power and provided the entity the peek beyond the curtain they seek—[uses this inner light] not only for the required horizontal movement of the third-density plane, but to begin the ascent upward, shall we say, upon the vertical plane, which has been described as the return journey home to the Creator, to the true nature of the self outside of the illusion. This is a very long journey, our friends, that extends endlessly beyond the third density experience.

But for those within your plane seeking to move upward, the logical mind and the entity’s relationship to this faculty and its use within the being evolve alongside of the being. In simple terms, we may say that the entity accelerating their spiritual journey, gradually and increasingly relies less upon the logical mind as its sole tool for understanding its environment. This is an ever-evolving, shifting and fluid dynamic.

And then there is an extreme end, shall we say, for the fully self-realized being, but upon the journey there, shall we say, is, as we have said, a dynamic relationship between faith and the rational/intuitive mind. And in that dynamic, evolving relationship, the entity knows when and where and how to apply that mind for its intended function without identification with the world it creates of form and separateness and otherness.

Instead, the entity increasingly looks within to the heart of self for the true or truer understanding of the moment. Which is forever and always outside of the constructs of space and time; before, shall we say, space and time were dreamed into existence.

This, the true nature of self, the ground of being, is not one of logic, precisely, nor is the key to it opened with logic. To access what, from the standpoint of the separation-bound self, is the innermost holy sanctum, one must die to the self—releasing their attachment to the illusion and their identification with form, surrendering in devotion, fully, to the Creator. Surrender that personal will, of resistance and self-seeking, that this separation-bound will may be aligned, and fused, and be one with the one true will, the will of the Creator.

This fundamental transformation and awakening from the dream and the return to the true self, the rational mind cannot do. This is not to say that the entity of faith discards this tool entirely, for even the entity of faith remains, to some degree, playing a game upon a stage; and on that particular stage, some degree of problem-solving and thinking may be helpful, but that tool becomes subordinate to the expanded awareness of the self which has almost entirely shifted its perspective and, shall we say, value systems.

The awakening and awakened self is playing a different game entirely. That is, for the most part, outside of the rules and norms of your society, in which the entity seeks to disarm and to be vulnerable to the moment wherein it seeks to bring both the light and the dark into the heart of acceptance; in which it sees that, whatever may be transpiring upon the surface of your world, including in the face of hatred and division and injustice, all is the Creator, all is the Creator knowing Itself. And thus there is nothing to fear, nothing to run from, nowhere ever to go but here, no particular someone to be. For all is the Self, and that Self is forever unbound and free in a dimensionless dimension.

And where the logical-bound mind would attempt to sort and order, and, as is often the case, control or manipulate the situation, or reconfigure it to one’s liking, the entity of faith may, in its most developed form, release all resistance to the moment and all attachment to outcome.

And it may seem to the reader that to look upon the moment with faithful eyes is to become, shall we pejoratively say, dumb: to turn off the intelligence, to become unthinking. But we may say that it is only through faith that truth may flow into and through the self. It is only through faith that one may make contact with what is actually happening in any given moment.

Is it clearer, or, in your logical terms, more effective to see and analyze and study the shadows shaking upon the surface? Or to step out from that cave and see the light source which was creating their shadows? To recognize that that light source is within the self and is ultimately the self. This is the same light source that underlies any moment in any incarnation within third density, and every moment of any place the entity’s feet may take them through the multi-dimensional journey of the birth and death of densities and octaves and entities and places. To such an entity who has learned to abide in faith, they are free and liberated from the constraints and strictures of the illusion.

This is not to say that they are impervious to harm or bodily destruction. But rather that they have found a true end to suffering and may move about freely in single-pointedness, in the desire, or rather, in the beingness of pure radiance which radiates regardless of the circumstance or the mistreatment or the cruelty on display. Which is beyond the basic and necessary maintenance of the body and the mind and the lower chakras as, through discipline, will and faith become crystallized, that the Creator may operate through this entity who believed, for a time, that it was separate. And through devotion and inquiry and faith, surrender the entire separate identity that it had made from an illusory position, merging once more into that infinite awareness from which it never separated.

To see with the eyes of faith is to remove the veils from the eyes that produce a cognition and awareness that is bound within the strictures and constraints of a logical mind.

We are Q’uo, and would ask if there is a follow up to this query?

Yeah, thank you, Q’uo. This query I’ve been trying to form as you’ve been talking, so I apologize if it’s not fully formed. But within that response, you recognized faith with terms such as formless, absent of resistance, totally free, unthinking. You said that somebody in faith is relieved from the constraints and strictures of reality, and that through faith, one can come into contact with what is actually happening.

And as you were talking, I have a question in my mind that I’ve had for a long time, and that is that those of Ra identified a congruency between faith and intelligent infinity. And that’s always kind of baffled me, to claim that those terms are kind of referring to the same thing. Ra says that one is a spiritual term, the other more acceptable, perhaps, to the conceptual framework distortions of “those who seek with measure and pen.”2

So I’m wondering if the reason that faith and intelligent infinity are, according to Ra, referring to the same concept, is related to the definition of intelligent infinity as the potential aspect of unity that has no form, has no bounds, has no manifestation, but is pure, formless, intelligent infinity, pure potential. That rings to me as similar in terms as you just described faith, without bounds.

So, I think my question is simply, is this the right direction of why these two terms are the same? And can you elaborate any more on the relationship between the terms faith and intelligent infinity?

We are those of Q’uo, and give thanks for this question. And we pause again as this instrument is somewhat uncharacteristically struggling on this day. We can indeed affirm, as you say, a right direction in your contemplation in seeking to understand, as it were, the congruency between these two terms.

As you know, our brother, there are no words or concepts or physics for the infinite. But there are multiple inroads for the thinking mind to, shall we say, reach and seek and contemplate. And this, we find, is one such helpful inquiry, for often your peoples have associated this word faith as belief without evidence, as the doctrine and the dogma which an ecclesiastical class expects the laity to accept uncritically. And faith then becomes a creed; and that, in your own lexicon, is indeed one variation in the meaning of that term.

But faith, as we intend it, is not a belief in a set of ideas. Faith is not even necessarily belief of, or in, that known to you as the Law of One text. Instead, faith is that which connects you—you being this illusory, separate entity of mind, body, and spirit—to your true nature in and as the One. This faith, as we have conveyed before, expresses itself in the being, in the awareness, and in the incontrovertible surety that all is well. Whether it be life or death, good times or difficult times.

It is not that one believes all is well as a principle or precept, though that can indeed be a powerful reprogramming affirmation or mantra. Rather, it is that faith clarifies any seeming landscape to reveal that all is indeed well against the backdrop of infinity, for nothing is ever lost. Nothing was ever created. Therefore nothing ever can be destroyed.

There is only ever eternity and infinity. And this sense, as it manifests within the third density, of all is well, is, thanks to, shall we say, plugging back into the Creator, limited, though this figure of speech is. The entity has sourced its—we correct this instrument—the entity has pulled back its identification from form and rediscovered and remembered that which it had never lost and never actually forgotten, that being its source as the One Creator.

And those of Ra, in their desire to speak with the utmost precision available to them using the limited and clumsy tools of your language, invoked this term of intelligent infinity to point to that realm which is one and the same of faith in the way that we describe it.

We may use synonyms and related concepts to speak to that which is beyond concept and words. But this intelligent infinity is, or may be likened to, primordial awareness itself. In the emotionally charged and highly distorted, more common term of your culture, it may be called God.

This awareness is aware. And it is infused with, to resort to your terms, sentience, you may say, though we find these terms wholly inadequate to the task. Which is part of the challenge of attempting to talk about that which is ultimately ineffable. For any concept or section of language that we may work with was built of, and from, and for, an illusory reality of space and time. Where seemingly independent or minimally related parts relate to one another in contrast and in comparison and in relationship. But there is no relationship in infinity; there is no subject who may stand outside of and make an object of infinity.

The beauty of the creation and the game of manyness is that the Creator, you, may seem to have this experience; may seem to look back upon yourself as infinity, identified with a particular focal point of form, and thus relate to and behold and glory in infinity. And in this glory, radiate a sense of beauty and awe and thanksgiving.

In this loving dance, this sexual fusion of the One and the many, the many and the One, in nondual terms the One is the many and the many, the One. As it is said in your Eastern cultures, nirvana and samsara are one. But insofar as any point of this infinite awareness is seemingly momentarily forgetting itself and identifying with form, then there is relationship with infinity; and such is the magic of this situation that the entity can [even] find a label to point to ultimate reality, to point to source, such as “intelligent infinity.”

Intelligent infinity as a concept seems to sit at a distance from the entity in an abstraction; as an object that is elsewhere. This is a misunderstanding. This also speaks to why understanding itself is nigh impossible using solely the intellectual mind. Faith is often taken to be, in the sense that we intend, a state of being. And it is all these things. Intelligent infinity is your alive beingness right now. It is that which is reading these words. It is that which is perceiving the senses of the body. It is that which is the background to your entire existence and every point of phenomena and experience and thought and sensation and misery and bliss within it. It has been your background condition and true nature all along.

Any experience that you have had in time will end because that which begins in time has an end in time and meanwhile and already, you have been nothing other than the Creator. Intelligent infinity has been the ground of your very own being; the awareness that is already, right now, in operation, shall we say.

And this can only be approached and merged into through this faculty of faith, which becomes one and the same as intelligent infinity. As we have described in our previous answer, it is only as the entity releases its grip upon the mortal self and its attachments and aversions and ways of seeing itself in the world, and the process of dying to the self, that the self may be, from the standpoint of the illusion, reborn to infinite being, which it already is.

You may see this travel, shall we say, from separation into unity, through this invisible bridge of faith, which, in its way, abandons the intellectual mind in the inward journey and leaps into midair, into that realm, or realm-less realm of the All within; which, as we have described and as you were questioning, there is no structure, there is nothing to hold on to, there is no past or future, self or other, subject or object, here or there. There is only silence and stillness which moves beyond all thought, all action, all word, all vibration.

With gratitude to the questioner for these very important questions, we would wrap up this contact and transfer now back to the one known as Austin that we may bring our cherished time with you to a close. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and I’m again with this instrument. We offer our gratitude at having been extended the invitation and then accepted into the circle of seeking. It is with great joy that we have been able to, through these instruments, speak to these concepts that are upon the minds of seekers, that are relevant to the path of the seeker, and we hope that our words find their way into the hearts of all who read them so that they may better inform your journey upon a planet that is attempting to evolve and transform into the next density and provide an environment of love and understanding for the entities upon it.

This transformation, as you know, is going quite roughly, and the calling out from this planet and the population upon it for love and for light grows ever more, and so does your capacity to walk upon the surface of this planet while radiating that which you know deep within yourself to be the truth. That truth, being the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator, grows more and more meaningful as this point of transition continues to grow near.

And as your planet continues to welcome the vibrations of fourth density with more and more intensity and manifestation within your space/time environment, we encourage all to take this vibration of love offered through our words and to allow it to be radiated through the being at any point that is possible.

At this time, we would take leave of this instrument and of this circle, leaving you as we found you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.

Quoted from the February 12, 2026 session. ↩

From #3.9:

I am Ra. The vibratory distortion of sound, ‘faith,’ is perhaps one of the stumbling blocks between those of what we may call the infinite path and those of the finite proving-understanding.

You are precisely correct in your understanding of the congruency of faith and intelligent infinity; however, one is a spiritual term, the other more acceptable perhaps to the conceptual-framework distortions of those who seek with measure and pen.

