Topics: periods of inner dullness or spiritual exhaustion arising from sustained service; how predation, death, and destructive events in nature and human life can still be expressions of the Creator; balance in relating to the distressing news of the day; exploring seasons of catalyst; the reality and meaning of Jesus; loving multiple people simultaneously; telepathy and empathy; perceiving energy signatures.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and with this instrument at this time. We are full of the joy and the love that we feel in each seeker of truth within this circle and in many circles like this around your world. We are inspired by your thoughts in the round robin, opening your hearts in authenticity to create that bond of love between you that we can use to speak our personal opinions in response to your words and questions. And this is something we want to emphasize: we have walked further upon the path than you have. But we have our biases. If any word or thought we speak does not ring the truth to you, please lay it aside. If you will do this, then we can speak more clearly and fully.

Then we shall ask now, if there is a query with which we may begin.

I have a query Q’uo. When a seeker who has oriented their life towards service to others begins to feel inwardly dull or emotionally fatigued or spiritually flat—not from necessarily personal despair, but from sustained giving—how might this condition be understood within the path of service?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. You have asked a very interesting query, for you are not the only seeker of truth that has this stage of growth presented to them from time to time.

Seekers of truth, such as you, who have devoted your life to serving others in almost everything that you do, at some point need to, shall we say, take a bit of a rest within your mind, your body, and your spirit in meditation to look at what you have been experiencing in feeling fatigued, mentally, emotionally, spiritually, physically. Look at it as food for growth. See how it has the possibility of giving you a chance to understand more of those places within your beingness that have been fatigued and worried. See that as a way of being of service to yourself, not in the way that controls yourself or anyone else, but learning how to love yourself by taking a break.

If you cannot love yourself, my sister, how can you love another? That love must grow within you. Taking a break by examining the difficulties, feeling their purpose, and then when you feel through your intuition, through the openness of your heart and the connection to your spirit and the Creator of all, that you are ready to begin again to serve as you have served, then go forth and serve with refreshed, glad and joyful heart and spirit.

This is something that so many people do not do. They serve too much. They become the martyr. And if they can no longer serve because they have martyred, then the world around them has not gotten the joy, the love of the Creator, to flow through them. It is always available, if you will give yourself time to rest when necessary. Is there a further query, my sister?

No, that made perfect sense. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. I’ve been practicing seeing all beings as the Creator. I have enjoyed seeing the birds and trees and other parts of nature on our property as parts of the Creator. Yesterday, I was watching the birds, and suddenly a hawk swooped down out of nowhere and tried to snatch one of the birds. It got me thinking about death and killing and all the negative things that happen in the midst of this beautiful nature we have. Bombing and war, too. How are these events a reflection of the Creator?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. You have spoken of those creatures of the second density that live upon each other. This is a way that a portion of the Creator discovers a way to further its journey, by consuming another portion of the Creator. And that portion of the Creator being consumed knows what it is like to feed another portion of the Creator, and the Creator sees how one is fed and one is eaten.

Yet they are both the Creator, and in some form, they will return to their kind and the inner planes of your planet, and they will be born again. And the cycle will repeat. The Creator will know Itself in every way each time this occurs.

Within your third density, those of your kind who choose to go to war for one reason or another—to gain money, to gain land, to create retribution for perceived ills in those that they fight for one reason or another—are doing the same thing. The Creator is discovering how there is, what you would say, the lack of love, or the seeming lack of love, within these actions of war. And the Creator sees that this is part of Itself, and that these beings also will drop their bodies due to war, walk into the light and review their incarnations. And they will meet with guides of the higher self and so forth, and see whether or not their pre-incarnated choices were fulfilled.

If they see that they have perhaps wandered from the course they chose prior to the incarnation, then they will very likely attempt another incarnation to relearn this lesson that hasn’t been fulfilled, and the Creator will know what it is like to recommit oneself to doing better instead of failing. There is no way that any action, thought, or word, spoken in any way—in a barbarous way, in a loving way, in a confused way, in a humorous way—can do anything but give the Creator information about Itself. There is no way anyone can fail at any time to help the Creator to know Itself.

But if any entity of the third density feels it has not done what it wished to do, it has as many incarnations as necessary to fulfill that desire. For in truth, there is nothing but the Creator learning from Itself through every portion of Itself. There is no way that the Creator is ever failed by anyone in what they do. Each portion of the Creator, however, can move more fully and freely into the light and love of the Creator as its ultimate path, by taking as many incarnations as possible to decide how to move back to the Creator—in the positive way of serving others and in the negative way of serving self—until, of course, the early sixth density when all must be seen as the Creator.

Is there a further query my brother?

I’m not sure how to ask this, but I just wish the Creator could know Itself without such suffering and pain and destruction.

I am Q’uo, and we feel that we have a query, that you might like to know why this is necessary and how it is helpful. What we would say is that you must remember that in the third density you live in an illusion. It is the illusion created by the veil of forgetting. If you were not in the third density and were beyond that veil of forgetting, you would look back and see all of the suffering was appropriate. The Creator is knowing Itself. And when all are beyond the veil of forgetting, we will continue to move forward through the higher densities where there is no veil, there is no feeling of suffering, there is more and more the feeling and the knowing and the being of the Creator in oneself and in all things.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo. That was wonderful.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you my brother. At this time, we would transfer this contact to one known as Austin.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo, and greet this circle through this instrument. Our hearts sing with joy to join this circle, as you have gathered and each of your own hearts joins with the others, forming a chorus, a song that you bring your entire being to, and express the infinite, unique aspect of the Creator that you embody. And as you join together, this chorus begins to resonate, and it calls to us and allows us to merge our own hearts with you.

If you could see from our perspective, you would see that this chorus and this joining together forms a certain dome or even column of light that expands to the far reaches of infinity. The entire creation itself is affected by the joining of your hearts and to the chorus that is sung as it merges even further with that grand song of the One Infinite Creator. We are honored and privileged to be able to sing this song with you.

At this time we would ask if there is a query within the circle to which we may speak. We are Q’uo.

Yes Q’uo. The news in our world is often of a disharmonious or upsetting or even heartbreaking nature. So this question is about the relationship of the seeker to news. Too much of it, and we risk despair or depression or disempowerment. Too little of it, and we become isolated and disconnected in a bubble of our own private world from the suffering of others. Can you speak to how the spiritual seeker may navigate this balance, please?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my brother. We would take a moment to allow this instrument to release his own thoughts for, as you are aware, this question has been upon his mind in this day. And we would allow him to release those thoughts so that we might be able to speak more freely to your query without his thoughts infringing.

I am Q’uo, and we thank this instrument for his attempt to release all of his pondering upon this query, as we hope to speak directly to the tension that is referred to within your query: the trouble of your world as it exists outside of you, and perhaps far from you, and how the news of that trouble might make its way to you in your own little creation, your own little universe.

Perhaps, if there were not mechanisms or channels for information to flow through to you, your own little creation would remain completely harmonious and at peace in the given moment that disharmony is happening elsewhere. We would take a moment to emphasize this point, that there is a great expansion upon your world, within the last decades, of an increasing awareness and connectedness of your peoples, where, previously, there could be a beautiful, sunny, peaceful day that is uninfringed upon by any news of perhaps the greatest destruction occurring on the other side of the world, and never should these two worlds have met.

An entity within that peaceful day and peaceful environment may live their entire lives without becoming aware of that destruction and suffering that happens elsewhere. The advent of your technology and the connectedness of your peoples has allowed for this awareness to expand, for you to become, in some sense, more connected with that suffering that could happen elsewhere.

This is not necessarily, you may say, a coincidence. The aspect of this connection, the nature of what you call news and information, is greatly expanded due to the oncoming energies of the fourth density: those energies that come to your planet and, you may say, work their way into the hearts of all in an attempt to express the nature of this density. It is a density of connection and understanding and love. However, as this energy attempts to find its way through you into your world, it manifests in ways that do not necessarily seem to speak to these qualities.

The technology developed that allows you as a peoples to become more connected, indeed, is an expression of fourth density. But it is colored, you may say, by the distortions of your peoples, the distortions of your planetary mind, your racial mind, and your individual mind. These technologies themselves and how they are utilized are colored by all of these distortions. And, this is an important aspect of the query that you pose to us, it is important to realize that the dynamic you exist within currently upon your planet is greatly distorted towards attempting to shine light and to draw each human together but instead is troubled by the distortions held deeply within your planetary population.

And so, when attempting to reconcile this dynamic, it is important to understand the distortions that are present, and not necessarily to view them externally, but understand how they are being reflected within you. These distortions of the technologies and how they arrive to you do resonate with certain parts of your being, and this is an attempt to show you to yourself.

We are speaking more to the technology itself and how it is utilized, and not necessarily to the heart of your question, that is, how a seeker may find some sense of balance and service when such an onslaught of information and awareness of suffering is available every moment of every day. The technology—and not just what you would call digital technology, but social technology—at play is important to examine within this dynamic. There are many, many influences upon how you receive information, and this is important in learning how to cope with or process such information.

But to turn more to the heart of your query, it is indeed an ever present dynamic of the third density, for even those entities who may exist within that peaceful day that we referred to earlier, will not exist within that peace forever. Even though they may never become aware of the suffering elsewhere, suffering will visit them in one way or another. It is impossible within your density for most seekers to avoid suffering. It is impossible to relieve yourself of this suffering, for indeed, it is the purpose of your density to experience the suffering in one way or another, to allow the Creator in which there is no suffering, to trick Itself into believing that such suffering is real, that such suffering does take place in some form of reality.

And so the Creator decides to hide from Itself and allow Itself to inflict suffering upon Itself. This may seem, from a certain perspective, a type of sick game. However, it is important to remember the primal distortion of the Creator, and that is free will; that, in order to genuinely experience any experience, in order to genuinely hide from Itself, it must allow the most far reaches of separation to be manifest within the creation—Its aspects cast out into the creation are imbued with the free will primal to its beingness, primal to the very creation of its creation. And with that free will, each seeker, each entity, may choose to inflict suffering upon another, or to attempt to alleviate that suffering, or to take that suffering within the self. There are many ways to relate to this dynamic.

We are afraid that our ability to address this query in a way that satisfies, and in a way that makes total sense, to the density of the veil, to an entity that has taken upon this forgetting, is quite limited. For within the veil, only glimpses of the true nature of the Creator are afforded. And so, this ever-present tension of the news of the day that makes it to you and your attempt to find balance in your desire to serve and your desire to be at peace is constantly disturbed. You may find within this tension its own form of catalyst. This tension itself is a form of suffering, this desire to understand how to open the gateways to awareness, to discover suffering within the world, but to keep oneself from being overwhelmed, is indeed itself an aspect of third density that is intended.

You are not necessarily meant within this density to find peace, to find that perfect balance where you can move the nozzle of information, of awareness of suffering, to the perfect point where it only pushes you so much that you may find peace again easily. It is a dynamic that is a push and pull. You may at times feel the need to retreat. You may at times feel the need to open yourself. And there is no simple solution to discovering which is appropriate at the time, except to explore that dynamic of acceptance that, whatever is happening at any moment, however much suffering you are aware of—whether it is none or all of it—is indeed appropriate for you to be experiencing at that moment.

And then to take that awareness inside and ask, “Why? What is the lesson to be learned from this tension? How can this tension help me to discover more of myself, to discover how better to relate to that broader suffering, to discover how I can shine my light within a world that is constantly attempting to bring my awareness to that suffering?”

You do have much control over your own inner world. However, we would emphasize that part of what makes this question difficult to address from our perspective is the chaos, as you may experience it, of your current density. We would venture to say that it is, from our perspective, quite abnormal. This is a unique moment upon your planet, of the coming of fourth density, the connection that you feel, the connection that is available to you and to your entire world, and yet the third-density energies of bellicosity, of the desire to inflict suffering upon others linger.

This is an incredibly unique moment that you as seekers and wanderers have chosen with great desire to incarnate into. This moment is indeed one of the most palpable and potential moments for any soul to find transformation and growth and understanding within their soul by incarnating, and forgetting, and experiencing this unique tension that is available to you at this time.

And so we would perhaps wrap up our response and encourage seekers who are feeling the tension that you have described within your query to not attempt to resolve that tension immediately, but rather, again, take that tension within the self and attempt to understand what is causing that tension. And through that introspection and inner seeking a new level of understanding of how to relate to the onslaught of suffering and information may be handled within the self.

Is there a follow up to this query my brother?

No, that was great. Thank you so much Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query to which we may speak?

I have a question Q’uo. Sometimes it seems as though painful or uncomfortable catalysts can come in seasons. And I’m just wondering if there is trueness, a truth to increased frequency of experienced catalyst, or if there’s a confirmation bias going on there, be it becoming more sensitive after a first experience of catalyst, and therefore seeing more catalysts in one’s life. And if there are seasons of catalyst, are there reasons for this? Are we engaging in agreements with others based on these seasons of catalyst? I think that’s the gist of my question.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of the query my sister. We would first speak to this bias that you have referenced within your query, the confirmation bias, and point out that it is indeed true, as your philosophers and scientists have discovered, that your human brains, your human cognition, is wired, you may say, to discover patterns. And this is an aspect of what has been labeled the confirmation bias.

However, we would also point out that even if this pattern is not readily recognizable in an objective sense, thus being called a “confirmation bias,” that this does not mean that it is irrelevant to the self, that there is not reality within the pattern discovered by the self. Indeed, there is much seeking to be done within the recognition of patterns, whether they are relevant only to the self or others. So we would encourage seekers to be aware of this dynamic called confirmation bias, but not to use this as a tool to dismiss what they are discovering within themselves, or to dismiss patterns that others see that are relevant to them.

To speak more directly to your question, we can confirm that, at least from our perspective, the nature of events that generate catalyst do indeed come in seasons and patterns. You may say, indeed, all of the Creation operates in this way, that there are ebbs and flows. Things rise and fall. Events come and go in waves and patterns and seasons, as you had called them. This is the very nature of the dance of the Creator, for there is a rhythm to the creation. As the Creator desired to imbue Itself into the creation, It did so through what you recognize within the third density as vibration. And this vibration can be recognized as a song, or a tempo. And as the creation, from its beginning, becomes more and more complex and more and more interrelated, this song itself gets more and more complex and interrelated.

There are various instrumentations and choruses and aspects to this song that may quiet so that others may rise, that some aspects of the song may be calm, and then in a sudden moment, explode with either joy or turbulence, whatever is happening at the moment.

This has been identified by your peoples in various ways, such as the astrological interpretation of your events, or the synchronicity, as you may say. Indeed, these things are very real, from our perspective. There is a metaphysical beingness underneath your reality that causes certain events to happen at the same time. And thus, as your people say, when it rains, it pours.

We encourage seekers attempting to understand this dynamic to realize that each moment is an opportunity. When the difficulties that you identify are absent, there is indeed as much opportunity to discover the heart and the love of the Creator as there is when they are abundant. Though, when they are abundant, it may seem more difficult to find that balance and to seek that love. So we would encourage [you to consider] that when things are easier, you may say, the muscles that allow the introspection, that allow the seeker to discover within the heart the love of the Creator, are exercised more deliberately. We encourage that, through these times, the habit of meditation, of contemplation, and of prayer are emphasized most, so that when the storm does come, you may say, the shelter is sturdy and that the love of the Creator can be discovered more easily through the difficult times.

We would also encourage those within the midst of such difficulty to remember that, as the popular saying among your peoples goes, this too shall pass; that, even though it seems like every day may bring a new challenge, a new blow, a new thing to throw you off balance and cast you into despair, that the seasons change, that the winter ends. This grass does grow again, the flowers bloom. And yet they will, of course, fade away again for the next winter. To become overly attached to one season of peace and calm and to deny and to struggle against the catalyst of difficulty and the season of turbulence is to avoid the Creator Itself.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, thank you so much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we would take leave of this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Trish. We are Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument. It is an honor and a privilege to sit among this circle, to hear your questions, to speak of our experiences, and to share in this journey of seeking with each and every one of you. And it is with that gratitude and that excitement for this journey of shared seeking that we would ask if there is a query to which we may speak?

Yes, I have a query. It was triggered by the mention of myth. I’m reading a book now called “The True Origins of Jesus: The Myth Behind the Man.” And I don’t know, it may be too involved to comment here, I don’t know. But anyway, is there a possibility, I guess, that Jesus was strictly a spiritual being, not necessarily a fully physical being? And that part of the myth of religions of all sorts was to promulgate this idea that Jesus was a real living person? And I don’t… I’m in trying to get some kind of an idea about that within my head. And of course, I haven’t been able to formulate that. Could you comment on the on the idea that Jesus may have been a mythical person who was used as a teaching aid? I don’t know how to say it any further. Could you comment on this, if I made my question clear?

We are those of Q’uo, and we appreciate and understand your query, my brother. In speaking through this instrument, we feel a bit of tension at the specific request to speak and say definitively one way or the other, if the entity known as Jesus was one who is of fully actualized physical beingness with the name Jesus, for we feel that perhaps speaking definitively would be an infringement upon the free will of your people. However, what we feel is more powerful in this query is the seeking of what that entity means to the seeker.

What is this spiritual being, whom you call Jesus? What does this entity represent? We understand that in the forward movement of time, that the myth, you may say, of Jesus, has been used in both positive and negative ways; that the establishments of religion have beauty but also pain imbued in their existence; that the myth has become, at times, a saving grace for entities on this planet, and an ultimate goal of character, of morality. And at times, has been used as a means of controlling entities on this planet, of representing an unobtainable goal and that which one must repent and be subject to, to constantly be judged by this figurehead of morality.

So to say that Jesus was either fully physically actualized or not is perhaps not the most important question. But more importantly is, “What does this figure represent?” That is the more full picture of who this Jesus is. Perhaps Jesus is a fully actualized physical being who walked this planet, whose name was [in the Greek version] Jesus, who was born of a virgin birth, miraculously. And perhaps Jesus was an idea, a seed of perhaps channeled energy that was manifest through multiple entities at converging times; that messages came through one or many entities, is, we could see, very important to the seeker, especially those of the Christian religion, to see this empowered, enlightened self as a speaker for the higher realms, to see them as a spokesperson for unity and love. And so we understand that desire to know this entity as Jesus.

We would suggest that the characteristics, the teachings, of this entity are where the greater fruits of spiritual knowing can be harvested. In the greater scheme of things, you may see yourselves as fully actualized physical beings, but we remind you that you exist on a plane of an illusion, that you are seemingly wearing these costumes, embodying these vehicles in a reality which is much more wide, that is far more simultaneously intangible and tangible. It is a forward moving, constantly fluid stream of loving consciousness that plays with itself and manifests itself in ways that make sense to your soul at this time, that constructs a body, that takes on a name, that develops an identity that is separate from Creator but also simultaneously fully part of the Creator.

Witnessing this Jesus entity with those eyes, with that lens, to see the self as a fellow projection of Creator, and knowing that the energy that created the Jesus, as you see the entity, is the same energy that runs through and creates you, that the principles that sprung forth, both painful and inspirational, are the same as those that spring forth from you, from your fellow comrade on this journey from past, present from future, that they are all one in the same. If the seeker truly desires to know the truth of what you see as Jesus, one merely needs to look inside and understand one’s own creatorhood. Then one may see that whether this entity walked the earth as we know it, in a singular form, is like a drawing in a comic book. It is merely a scene from a greater, wider, unending story that is truly, in the grand scheme, only existing in this present.

We do apologize, my brother, that we cannot speak more concretely to your query, and we would ask if there’s a follow up to which we may provide perhaps more clarity or direction.

It seems to me you did touch upon the political aspect of possibly Jesus being used, the idea or the man, as a political way to keep the flock in check. And it’s, well, I mean, that seems to me to be a part of it, but, and it’s the same thing as using fear, which is, you know, to keep people in check, because if you’re afraid of this, then you’re not going to do that. But anyway, I don’t mean to drag this out, but it just fascinates me, the idea, but you cover it pretty well. If you have any other comment, fine. If not, I will be satisfied perfectly with what you said.

We are those of Q’uo, and we appreciate that invitation, my brother. We would simply state that while yes, there have been instances, and perhaps still are instances where people or entities of great inspiration can be used as pawns in a larger game of control, that there are countless many more who embody and walk a walk that is in alignment with those inspirational words that allow for the space of acceptance, of unconditional love, of truly loving thy neighbor as thyself, of welcoming those as they are in that moment, without a desire to contain the flock, if you will, to see them as perfect projections of the Creator and to love them all the same.

We know that, throughout your history, there have been many challenges, many affronts to that idea of unconditional love in the name of unconditional love, that religion or inspirational figures have been, for lack of better word, weaponized to create a status quo or an expected expression of behavior. And we understand how that may lead to sorrow and pain and confusion and even trauma. We know that this entity in particular, this instrument who channels our words, has experienced religious trauma and knows that that is a byproduct of the use of control.

But again, there is a loving truth that flows underneath these institutions, that the words of faith, that the loving creation that is truth, that realm has also inspired and loved and housed and tended to seekers across your time, across your space. And that, just as powerful and painful those moments of control have been in your history and in your present, there are many more powerful moments of love, of light, of full acceptance of all, unconditionally.

We are those of Q’uo, and we would ask if there is another query to which we may speak.

No follow up for me. Thank you very much.

We are those of Q’uo, and we appreciate that my brother. Is there a final query to which we may speak through this instrument?

Q’uo, what would the purpose be of having two loves that are seemingly contradictory, that are seemingly un-unifiable, what would be the purpose in a seekers life for that?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are very grateful and appreciative of this query my sister. We can feel the tenderness, the rawness of this question, and we can understand how confusing experiencing such a situation may be. Initially, as we make our words known through this instrument, we must impart a bit of humor and state that, my dear, your heart is just so full of love that, you make space for many. You have so much love to give, of course, you would find that you have more than just one soulmate or path sharer. That is a beautiful thing.

And though we realize at the same time that in the way the people on this planet operate, and the entities in this third density dynamic struggle to make room, if you will, or to make sense, to balance the intensity of multiple loves in that way. We realize that it is culturally accepted that a self may find and commit itself to one other-self, or that one may walk alone and have dalliances with many other-selves, never fully committing. And we can see that there is often a blind spot, that there is a black and white of no gray area, no room for expression other than those two things.

And so we would say, my sister, that it may seem that these two loves are, how shall we say, mutually exclusive, that you feel one cannot exist with the other, at least in a way that has balance, that cohesion may be found. And we would state that this ultimately is a question of how you wish to seek these loves manifest, how you wish to imbue them with your own energy. Or in your shared energy with the other-selves.

We can see that there may be a cultural stigma against sharing life with two other-selves. Or that perhaps in some cases, there is geographic distance, or that there is a simple challenge in the way that the lives align, be it family, work, any amount of lifestyle difference which translate to an inability to find that balance. But we would state, my sister, that love has many forms, that those who you feel this flavor of kinship to are a part of your life for a reason, and perhaps for a season.

Love is at the core of all of creation. It is the, shall we say, DNA makeup, the atomic structure of all that you see. And so to deny the feelings of love is to deny your creation. We understand that action and feelings are two very separate things, and we would suggest that the seeker who is questioning these feelings and how they may come into action, to sit with what one’s larger goal in expressing those feelings and acting upon those feelings, and to do so with a heart steered in service to others, to recognize one’s motivations and intentions, to take a survey of the landscape ahead of one.

We know that this can be very confusing, that this can feel rife with catalysts, that there are so many potential spots for pain, for disharmony. But again, we assure you, my sister, that love, when it is felt purely and expressed tenderly, is a pure thing, is an expression of the Creator.

As we said before, these entities come in and out of your lives for a reason, and perhaps just for a season. We would suggest that you take time to look at that love, perhaps the love that has long stood by you, or the love that is just now entering, to be present with them as they are in this moment.

And in this next piece, we understand that this may be challenging, but to have nonattachment, to see them as the flower out in the field and witness their beauty in that moment. We know that committed relationships, friendships, family relationships, they all come with a desire to grasp firmly, that you love this entity or these entities so very much you cannot let them go. The thought of life without them feels impossible.

My friends, when we get stuck in those very purely motivated thought patterns, we sometimes forget to see the sun that shines. We forget to take moments of pause to recognize their beauty in that very moment, without the baggage of the past or the fear of the future.

And so, my sister, we would simply state that it is possible to have multiple loves of all kinds of natures at any given moment. May that present catalyst? Absolutely. Hearty catalyst, worthy catalyst, for both knowing the self and knowing the self in relationship to other. But, my friend, it is love at its core. It is beautiful. It is perfect.

And when one can sit with that love and see it for what it is, without judgment, without need of control, you may find your heart opening to more space for more love, not to create more pressure or anxiety, but [to understand] that there are no bounds to love.

And so we would finally suggest, my dear sister, that you allow yourself some grace in this period as you navigate this journey, as you attempt to make sense of what is this new dynamic. What is this agreement we have apparently decided upon? What are we going to learn from this together? That you be patient with yourself and with those that you are in communion with, that you see the beauty in each moment and that you find love and peace for yourself. And remember that you are worthy of so much love, just as much as you give.

We are those of Q’uo, and we would ask if there is a follow up, or if we could provide more clarity to this query, my sister?

No, that was perfect. Thank you so much.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we shall take leave of this instrument and transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and once again, with this instrument. We would ask if there is another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. This question comes from K. and she asks, “Could you explain the metaphysical mechanics of telepathy in third density, and whether what we experience as empathy is, in fact, a form of telepathic contact, connection?”

I am Q’uo, and aware of the query of the one known as K. Telepathy within your third-density illusion is something that is relatively rare. In circles such as this, we use telepathy to communicate with each of the instruments. So this is something that can be learned. We are aware that there are others within this vicinity, and around the world, as a matter of fact, that have practiced telepathy amongst themselves, and have been able to do this much, as we speak, through this instrument in answer to all the queries that have been asked today.

So telepathy is something that can be learned, although very, very few of your people on this planet at this time are aware of it, except, of course, The Telepathy Tapes, which have become very well known, so that there are said to be those of the autistic variety that are able to read the minds of their parents and friends.1 They are advanced spiritual beings that are here to show us that we can communicate in other ways with each other.

And one which might be determined an empathic being has a kind of telepathy of another nature. It is not so much of the mind as of the emotions, the feeling of the vibrations of other people or places or things that may be felt as positive or negative, to be accepted or rejected. So telepathy is something that can be learned and can be practiced, and we see that there are many that can do this.

Is there another query my brother?

One more. She also asks, “I would like to better understand unique vibratory signatures as we experience them in third density. Could you explain the underlying metaphysical mechanisms by which a sensitive seeker perceives energy signatures, and whether this ability can be consciously refined? And is it possible to learn to attune to and perceive the unique vibratory signature without a conscious channel?”

I am Q’uo, am aware of the query of the one known as K. The ability of an entity to feel empathically, or even telepathically, the nature of the world around it is something that can be very helpful if the entity has not submitted to, shall we say, those vibrations which are difficult to handle, that cause the emotions or the body to feel in jeopardy in some way that may not be known. This is something that happens only to those who are especially sensitive and have this ability to perceive that others do not have.

And a way that this can be enhanced within any entity is by using the tool of meditation to open the being that is the spirit nature of the self in a way which perceives a greater reality around it so that it might benefit from the vibration of the love of the Creator that exists within each moment. These are tools which are, as we have said before, seldom utilized by most of your people. But when one sets one’s intention to do this, then it is possible to perceive much within the world around one and within the own being that would not be perceived if the intention was not set. For setting the intention opens the true self of the being, the Infinite Creator, to partake within that which is experienced, that which is felt, that which is desired, that which is not desired. So this is, what we would say, a tool or technique that can be enhanced if one sets one intention to it.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, that was all. Thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there any further query at this time?

We would like to thank each attendee here for taking the time out of their third-density life to pursue their spiritual journey within the circle of seeking. Each of you today has helped each other by your very presence, by allowing the love of the Creator to flow through you in your round robin. By your very being, your presence here, you have enhanced each other’s journey, vibrations of the love and the light of the One Creator. And we thank you for this, because this love and light shoots like a star throughout the universe and is seen by many other beings on other levels. And they rejoice that more and more the Creator is being found here in your place of seeking the truth.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, thanking each of you for being the Creator to each other. Adonai vasu borragus.

The Telepathy Tapes is a podcast series exploring telepathy, nonspeaking communication, and the many ways minds connect beyond words. ↩

