Question: We would like to ask a question about prayer. We would like to know how prayer is related to healing—how it might facilitate healing of mind, of body, of emotions, and of spirit.

(Carla Channeling)

We are those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and the light of the Infinite One. It is a special pleasure to be with you this day as you celebrate your season of renewal of life force in your beautiful environment of flowering bushes and blooms. We thank each for calling us to you this day and would address your query concerning healing and how prayer may affect the various kinds of healing.

We would say also that we find this instrument quite low in energy and are needing to speak slowly. We thank you for your patience. The contact is a good one, but we must gauge our delivery according to the instrument’s limitations.

To speak about healing, we would first look at what that word means. The usual meaning of this word healing is that there has been a disease or toxic condition which has been cured. Thus, healing is the cessation of whatever agent—be it germ or another kind of agent—that has lived to the destruction of the body, mind, emotions, or spirit. It better suits our purposes, however, to look at that which is healed as that which has rectified and made again active and viable the movement of energy through the energy pathways or meridians of the physical vehicle and the finer vehicles, when working with mental, emotional, and spiritual healing.

The difference, basically, is that it is our perception that in health, there is a fullness of appropriately regulated activity. Whereas, when there is ill health or negative health, the energies do not continue flowing, but become confused and, in many cases, blocked at some level or energy center within the natural progression of energy flow of the vehicles which carry your consciousness. These vehicles lie together and are only separated in order that we may give you some idea of the richness, depth, and complexity of your structural makeup as not only consciousness, but consciousness within a physical vehicle which interacts and is part of third density.

When an energy is baffled, striated, diverted, or stopped in a certain place within the physical vehicle, the result of this irregularity of energy flow is usually seen first in the emotions. However, your peoples often do not give attention or respect to the messages which the emotions offer, feeling that it is more proper to hew to a schedule and be the same each day. Therefore, much discomfort which the emotions could, at the onset of disease, balance effectively, the unmanaged peculiarity in energy flow continues and thus engages the mind.

However, once again, those within your culture tend not to accept thoughts concerning theoretical or metaphysical implications, if such implications might suggest that one root up and discard the normal or scheduled routine. The key here is lack of respect and attention. It is only at this point that the physical body is assaulted with some diagnosable disease.

So, you see, the primary blockage that causes the unhealed condition may begin in any energy center, but the healing is offered first to the emotions, then the intelligence, then the physical body, [which] in the absence of other healing, is forced to play, act, or express and manifest physically the distress.

So, we see health as the clarity, radiance, and coherence—if not brilliance—of the energy centers. As is often the case with us, we use the colors of the rainbow to describe and visualize these centers of energy.

Now, we may turn to prayer. Prayer interacts with the distribution of energy flow in such a way as to tend to regularize flow. We do not feel the need to define prayer because any vocalization, conceptualization, or other means of organization in which prayer is intended is functionally prayer. One cannot try to pray and fail. The attempt to pray is the prayer.

What causes a person to pray? What lies so deep within an entity that spontaneous prayer rises to the lips? Each of you knows that, in some few situations in your life, prayer was an activity which you discovered while in the process of doing it. There is an instinct to ask for help when all else fails. This instinct is the gift of distant memory—the memory of their being oneness betwixt created and Creator. Through all the veils of forgetting, this instinct is so deep as to persist inevitably.

When the infinite intelligence of the Creator is invoked, a thought is called forth. That is the one original thought – love itself. And any situation into which love is introduced will tend to be affected positively by love. Love is a vibration which equals the true or full vibration, which is the line of original energy flow.

Thus, prayer creates the introduction into the mind/body/spirit totality of an entity of the original flow. However, this flow is moving along the spiritual, rather than the physical, of the bodies. It therefore moves through blockage, confusion, and so forth, wherever it finds it. This free flow of the energy sought and found in prayer has the tendency to entrain the flow of the physical vehicle, so that the physical energy of flow tends to be restored.

Now, when an entity wishes to be a healing presence, not only for one physical vehicle or one mental, emotional, or spiritual aspect of a consciousness, but for the world at large as this instrument would say, or for some group larger than one entity, the prayer is working upon the mental, or in some cases, emotional vehicles of that group entity, and in some few cases, on the physical manifestation of that group entity. So, whether the healing is for an individual or group consciousness, the prayer has in its answer an equally effective agent of health.

Were entities to turn, whenever they found themselves in a worried or puzzled state, to intercession thanksgiving and praise, that is, to various forms of prayer, they would find, over a period of time, two things: firstly, that their frame of mind had become more balanced; secondly, that the problems that were so worrying somehow had taken a turn for the better in that they begin to be perceived as less worrisome. Turning to prayer is an appeal or shifting of the attention to that original pattern, which is forever mysterious but is also forever unified and whole.

It is a habit hard to cultivate, difficult to regularize, and impossible to adjudge in any provable way. However, that instinct of consciousness is a gift which may remind each in time of trouble to ask for help. Asking, praying—this is the secret. For as one devoutly hopes, has faith, and prays, so shall one’s health be established.

We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim Channeling)

I am Q’uo and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time, it is our privilege to offer ourselves to any further query if there may be service in it. Is there a query with which we may begin?

I was wondering about—I know that you said that there wasn’t one method of prayer better than another. But I was wondering, still, if there might be something you could say about—especially about various visualizations: visualization of the color of the energy center, or visualization of the healing taking place, visualization of the person as a healthy person that you’re praying for. Could you say something about that group of techniques? Or do you feel [that] they truly are one is as good as another?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. In many respects, each of these techniques of prayer is effective, in that there is the focus of desire and the experiencing of the opportunity to serve. freely given as the breads cast upon on the waters mentioned in your Holy Bible.

We find that the general qualities of being able to see and accept the diseased state of the one to be healed as it is, and then being able to see this entity full of light, whole and harmonized in its energy flow, is most helpful to anyone who would seek to send healing vibrations of the highest level to another. Thus, the ability to visualize is quite helpful and adds another dimension to prayer.

The normal or most generally used means of prayer by most of your peoples in this particular country and religious heritage is to invoke the name or names of guardians, saints, and the one known as Jesus, to be with the entity seeking healing. This is also quite helpful, in that there are indeed entities of just these namings and source of being available to assist those who would pray for another entity. By such repeated invocations, a path or trail is made and traveled as often as the prayer is offered. Thus, such ritualized prayer is enhanced in its efficacy by the regularity and degree of desire by which the prayer is offered.

To be able, in addition to this more frequently used kind of prayer, to also visualize is to add another dimension to the praying and intercession. This dimension is that which tunes, shall we say, the prayer in a more usable fashion, if the entity to be healed is full enough of its own desire and has reached the point of processing of catalyst that is sufficient to welcome the new, more healthy configuration of mind, body, and spirit that the healing process has as its goal.

Is there another query, my sister?

Yes, I have two people coming to this contact from interests in working with healers. They both want to ask questions about various points, chakras—questions on healing, basically—that they are interested in various techniques of healing the body, and I suppose healing other things, too, but the mind is really on healing bodily conditions. Are these questions that can be put to you without causing the tuning that makes the contact between the channel and you good to falter in any way? Are these questions that can be safely asked in a stable manner, without disturbing the nature or the strength of the contact?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my sister. We are quite happy to speak upon these topics, weighting the kind of information we share with the continual suggestion that the healer must first heal the self and see the healing process as that which is possible when the realization of unity takes place deep within the one to be healed. This realization may be aided by one serving as healer. The one serving as healer will serve most efficiently when it is able to find this unified point of being within itself as a result of its own work of an inner nature and persistent reapplying, shall we say, the techniques of looking within for the balance and sense of wholeness, from which all healing efforts must proceed.

Thus, we are happy to speak to any specific topic or modality of healing, and will add that information which we feel is important in precisely placing the focus as the healer does its work of offering the potential for healing to another.

Is there another query, my sister?

Yes, there is Q’uo, but I want to thank you for the clarity of that answer. That helps a lot. I can really see where the realization of the healer being healed first is critical. If it’s possible for you to comment at all, I have also noticed my energy is just almost nonexistent, and I don’t know why. I mean, I never have physical energy, but I usually have vital energy. And I haven’t felt very vital this week. I feel alright, just not with it. Could you comment at all [on] what’s going on?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of you query, my sister. For each seeker, there is the cycle of experience which manifests in mind, body, and spirit energy levels, and their continual shifting from strength to weakness as catalyst is processed within the environment of your third-density illusion. Thus, there are times when each seeker will find that it is more fully infused with this vital energy or the combination of energy of mind, body, and spirit.

There will be times when the seeker finds itself low and somewhat disabled by its lethargy. There will be far more times where the seeker will find itself moving between these extremes, as the cycles of each energy complex move independently and harmoniously of each other—we correct this instrument—with each other. We find that there are many factors which may be commented upon in relation to your current condition. However, the most fundamental feature of your experience of lowered energy levels is that you are within the trough or downward portion of the overall experience of your mind, body, and spirit energy levels or, again, as we have called this combination, the vital energy level.

Of secondary importance is the pushing of the self to accomplish work, shall we say, while the energies are low. We note here that, though the short run effect of this pushing of the bodily and mental complexes, especially during the low energy, is to increase the feeling of deficit, but the longer run view, shall we say, is that the pushing of the self to a certain degree, which you are discovering, helps to strengthen the overall ability to generate vital energy. Thus, we suggest a lack of concern and a keeping on, as you would say.

Is there a further query, my sister?

So, you’re suggesting that there’s no real value in accepting that it’s time to take some time off and just taking some time off, if you can? But the better path, when you’re faced with a feeling like this, is to just carry on, keep on keeping on, as you said. Is that right?

[Tape one ends.]

I am Q’uo, and I greet each again in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are again with this instrument. We spoke to a balance which you are discovering, and again return to that statement with the suggestion that your choices of late have been well balanced between work, which has wearied you, and rest, which has rejuvenated you. Thus, during the low energy period, and indeed at all times, no matter the level of energy, it is well to push at some times and rest at others. We commend your choices, and continue keeping on as you have with these choices.

Is there another query, my sister?

No, I think that’s all for now, but I really appreciate the opportunity. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

[Thirty-second pause]

I am Q’uo, and we thank each once again for inviting our presence and bathing us in your great desire to be of service and to know that which can be known about that service which you offer and those difficulties that you experience. We salute your valiant efforts to move through this third-density illusion with as great a sense of grace and harmony and wholeness as you can experience and as you can offer to others. We move with you as those who rejoice at your every step and who witness your joys and sorrows as brothers and sisters. We are in good company, and we thank you for inviting us there.

We are known to you as those of Q’uo and would leave each and this group at this time, as always, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.

