[The tape begins in the middle of a reply to a question having to do with astrology.]

(Carla channeling)

[I am Q’uo.] … we seek at this time to do.

We are most happy to share our thoughts on astrology, with the disclaimer that our thoughts are to be heard as the thoughts of a friend, rather than those of an all-wise teacher, for we make errors. The request we have of you is that you simply leave behind any thought which does not seem worthwhile to you.

We give this instrument the picture of the world that lies in darkness. A kind of waiting, or anticipatory darkness such as the eve of a great holiday. The present period among those upon your sphere’s surface at this time is an increasingly exciting one as there has been more and more of this consciousness among all of your world’s peoples that some great event seems to be in the offing, so that the coming of the night is more acceptable.

It is into such a frame of consciousness, if you will, that we bring this discussion of astrology. This instrument wonders what we do, but we ask it to relax and go with us on this. There have been centuries in which it would not have aided most to look more closely into the archetypical mind. These centuries have passed for this third-density experience which you enjoy at this time. The end truly is near, if you will. Not physically, but more and more mentally and spiritually. There is that subconscious or unconscious awareness amongst your people that there are special reasons to look more deeply into natural phenomena and their possible effect upon the self, be it body, mind or spirit that is affected.

Astrology is a complex and detail driven technology, if you will, a system of ephemeral, mathematical constructs having to do with the configurations of heavenly bodies.

To the student who wishes to probe more deeply within the self to become more and more familiar with those uncharted regions of the self represented by the marker in consciousness which you would call sub-awareness, it [astrology] offers one way of learning more about the deeper mind. There is this sub-awareness that the deeper studies at this crux may be those which have fruitful results. On this level, let us say, the awareness of specific and personal detail is not that of which we speak at this time. Rather, the archetypical mind finds explication by the relationships of heavenly bodies to each other and to the planetary sphere upon which you presently enjoy incarnation.

At this level, much deep awareness can be encouraged by immersion in that complex set of relationships of star to star and star to the system of star and planets which you call home. On another level, the personal level, yield of useful information from continued study of and awareness of the progression of one’s own—this instrument would use the word “chart”—is shall we say, a good way to develop both an instinct for influence and a relatively authentic feeling of control over the continuing life experiences which is so precious to you. To one entity, such a study would be work, a difficult chore done in order for the learning. To such a one, we would suggest investigating other avenues for learning more attuned to the environment and for aid in the feel of control over the life experience.

Astrology, then, is that for which some entities are well suited, others not. To the entity which feels positively or affirmatively concerning keeping up with the chart’s progression for the self, astrology can bear that aid in consciousness which creates for the seeker a vantage point, consciousness which can act as a collecting area for the amassing of one’s psychic self. The gift of being psychic or aware in non-physical ways is within all persons. The means of developing this gift are tremendously large, infinite, we would think. However, to a fairly large percentage of those now seeking to increase the rate of learning, spiritually speaking, a substantial number would, indeed, find in astrology that place from which to continue to learn how to gather more and different information from the environment, for the environment is illusory and more than that is an illusion with many sub-illusions which further color the catalyst which is retained for use by your minds.

Now let us speak more in general, for there is a point to be made as regards the use of systems created by the mind and observations of mankind. Insofar as any system is internally valid in its logic, that system may be to the entity which plumbs its depths that crutch or aid which acts as the collector for the abilities and gift of the seeker. In general, it is well to choose as a system, whether it may be astrology or numerology, the study of the eye or head or hand and we could list systems for a substantial length of your time. What avails then to the seeker as efficient tools is that very systematic nature, for the mind within incarnation has the instinct for the pattern.

Each entity in each experience is, in part, working internally to place the present moment into a context which will yield the maximum amount of information. This information is usually heavily biased towards comfort and well-being. However, the mind can be increasingly trained to retain catalyst which is presented to the mind which perhaps has little, if any, survival use but which does indeed aid in spiritual learning. And the way to become more able to do the work in consciousness is to persist in experiencing one system, be it of myth, science, philosophy or ethics or any system whatsoever which—we correct this instrument—to which the seeker is personally and individually drawn.

For you are, indeed, living on the eve of that which shall come to be. It is almost impossible to describe the nature of the shift of consciousness from basic third density to basic fourth density. This shift shall take you with it, if you dwell now on planet Earth. Therefore, we encourage the twin awarenesses that it is a great time to be watchful and that it is a good time to celebrate that which astrology or any “ology” might do, which is to aid in the development of that sharply tuned hunger for the truth that is revealed in the present moment.

How we do encourage each to more and more dwell and marinate the complete entity in the present moment. It may seem odd that the mind’s structure is such that the entrance to the present movement is often roundabout, moving not through the invisible door into the fully accepted present, but rather going completely around the entire structure of living to surprise the present moment, only after the long walk has sharpened the appetite.

Astrology is, shall we say, the hors d’oeuvre which encourages an entity to more aptly fit the intellect to accept an increasing number of inferences. This ability to loosen the self from the physical and move into an abstract system of gazing at the self is key.

What you do in gazing at astrology is to sharpen the intellect’s ability to let go enough so that the gifts which are called psychic may express themselves intelligibly to that mind which has been softened to accept increasing numbers of inferences, for that which you seek cannot be deduced or received.

Discuss what you will. You cannot bring instrumentation, as you know that, to bear on the nature, which is the original Thought of the one infinite Creator.

We would at this time declare with regret that this is the substance of our discussion at this time, unless there is a query which would take this line of reasoning further. Might any have the desire to proceed further at this time with this particular query?

[Pause]

In that case, we would close this particular session through the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and light. We are known to you as Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to ask if there be any queries upon any other topic that we may attempt a response to.

I have another question, Q’uo. Prior to the session the situation was discussed of helping ourselves. [Inaudible] to be at a disadvantage in our particular society and my observation was that the feelings that come to me during that Sunday were unexpected. I was wondering if there is any use for logical reasoning in trying to observe one’s own reaction in giving aid or helping another, or if it is more useful for a seeker just to accept it as it is and sort of try to do the best every time that situation or event comes up. I wonder if you could comment on it?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The situation of which you speak is one in which you were offered the opportunity to be of service to another in a very direct and immediate fashion. This quality of immediacy is that which catches the seeker, shall we say, in an off-guard position, as you may put it. The spontaneous response of any entity to any stimulus is to act in this off-guarded moment in a pure and unpretentious fashion, to look at this experience as it has been completed, and to review one’s reactions, thoughts and emotions is the archetypical path of the seeker for the examination of the life pattern is the seeking of truth. The illusion exists for your seeking and your learning. Thus we applaud the care taken in investigating one’s responses to significant stimuli. The significance is chosen by each of you according to that which moves your inner rhythms, those patterns programmed previous to the incarnation. Thus is well to spend time daily reflecting upon the day as it has passed to note those experiences where there was movement in your own consciousness, those felt and [that] left behind a strength and a mark upon your memory.

May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?

I will take it further by saying that when I agreed to help, I had some expectations in the way it would feel and it did not feel that way and so I would ask you what kind of experience does the seeker set himself up for with the approach he is giving it? Would you give some preconceived idea of what it might be like? What it should be like?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query. To have a preconceived idea as the to the outcome to any event is to confuse the perception of that event when it occurs. This provides additional catalyst to the seeker and it is not inappropriate to have these preconceptions, however, it may be noted to be inconvenient. It may also be noted by the seeker that there are a great many responses possible as a result of the giving of service and each response may be carefully noted and investigated so that the connection with giving without condition can be made.

Is there any further query, my brother?

No, Q’uo. Thank you for that.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, brother. Is there another query at this time?

Well this is personal, but I was talking with Jim the other day and we were wondering what had changed since the readings that I was given by Ra that have enabled me to [do] things that, at the time, I simply could not do. If this is not a subject you can speak upon, that’s fine. If you cannot comment, great.

I am Q’uo. We first [must] ask if we spoke too soon?

Well, Q’uo, only because I always have something else to say, I was just going to say that, in general.

I am Q’uo. Still … [laughter from group] and we give this instrument the image of the steel door, locked carefully, and apologize for the lack of information. Is there any other query, my sister?

Would it aid my understanding of the energies at work in my life to meditate on this door?

I am Q’uo, and we would suggest that the query itself be the focus of meditation.

Very well. Thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query, at this time?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank each for your patience and most especially for your invitation to us for we are always filled with joy to receive it and to have the opportunity to blend our vibrations with yours. We are most grateful to walk with you this portion of your journey and assure each of you that there are many such as we who walk with you always and there are those who rejoice at your every step. We shall take this opportunity to leave this instrument and this circle of working, leaving each, as always, in love and light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.

