Q’uo: The relationship between the healer and the one to be healed, indeed, is that which taps into the unity that connects all things. For as the one to be healed seeks the healing energies, the entity is attempting to bring into a more harmonious state of balance some portion or portions of its mind/body/spirit complex that are currently in such a state of disharmony, that they have begun to impinge upon the entity’s ability to learn or continue to incarnational pattern. The one to be healed, then, in seeking the offices of the healer, offers itself to the One Creator, that moves through the healer in whatever modality is utilized, and brings the two into a harmony for the moment of healing, shall we say–that moment in which the one to be healed accepts a new configuration of attitude in the metaphysical beingness from which the manifested third-density physical vehicle depends.

[Question not present on audio.]

(Carla Channeling)

The question is large enough that we fear we cannot do parts of it justice. But we believe that this is a beginning at a discussion concerning healing–the ethics of healing and the modalities–as all being acceptable.

At this time, the instrument is informing us we have to stop our florid language and move to other questions that may have been brought up by this or any question which you may wish to ask. We would at this time, if the entity known as Janice is willing, desire to conclude this sitting with any questions which any might have.

We leave this instrument in thanks, in love, and in light. This instrument is upon what is known as a hospital bed. It is limited. It is also healed. Gaze at the glory of the One Infinite Creator, and do not take the definitions of society and worldly wisdom as truth. If an entity is whole, it may sit in the baking sun until it has broiled its skin away, and yet still it is whole.

We would at this time transfer to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo and leave this instrument in love and light. I am Q’uo.

(Jim Channeling)

I am Q’uo and greet each again in love and in light. At this time, we would ask if there would be any further queries to which we may speak?

[Inaudible] the use of an individual’s birth chart with the [inaudible] opportunities to grow [inaudible]?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my brother. The practice of that which you call astrology–the study of the nature and effects of the planets and the stars upon those entities which inhabit your planetary sphere–is a study which, like many other studies, offers to those interested in it the opportunity to view the road which has been traveled, is being traveled, or shall be traveled.

It is often helpful to the seeker of truth to be informed of those qualities which are primary in the personality of the present incarnation, so that the seeker might work from those areas of strength, and build and stabilize those areas of weakness, so called, in the attempt to achieve an overall balance within the mind/body/spirit complex. It is often helpful for the seeker to know, for instance, that certain of its abilities are helpful in circumstances which have heretofore been puzzling and confusing to the entity. It is helpful to view those wide places and those narrow places in the road, so that there might be the movement through both with the most efficacy.

The offering of one’s self to others in providing this service is beneficial when the ones seeking assistance have the sincere desire to know, not the details of the daily life which shall change from day to day, but seek the undergirding principles that inform each incarnation and infuse each entity’s opportunities for learning in the areas which have been chosen for the current incarnation.

We look upon this study as a means by which entities may also approach a more informed understanding of the mind of the Creator as it is reflected in the movement of planets and possibilities within the incarnation. Thus, some look to this study for information regarding those primary qualities that we find you have in this group called the archetypical mind. That is the study of the mind of love.

In this study, one is able to see a kind of mythology, if you will, which places the entity as a seeker of truth upon a great journey; and, as a seeker on this journey, is accompanied by many friends who may lend assistance as archetypical images when they are called upon in a conscious and sincere fashion. Thus, the seeker of truth may begin–and we stress begin–to apprehend more of the qualities of the self and the Creator that are infinite in nature; and which, in the sense of the self, are reflected or manifested in a certain way so that the seeker, by studying the self, becomes aware of a pattern that may be utilized in the traveling of the journey and in the study of all mysteries which present themselves to each seeker. Thus, that which is found within the self may be seen reflected within those portions of the Creator that you see as stars and planets, just as those features of the Creator are found in the stars and planets may be found in and affect the seeker in each portion of its journey.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Not on that one. Thank you. I can give some space now for someone else to ask a question.

I had a couple of questions about the message. And I probably didn’t hear it all because I was channeling. But I was surprised that the patient and the healer seem to you to be the same. The healer and the healee–however you want to say it–they seem to be… And I wasn’t being deductive here, but inductive. But it just felt as though you were suggesting that there was a oneness between the healer and healee, and that oneness was normal. [Inaudible]

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The relationship between the healer and the one to be healed, indeed, is that which taps into the unity that connects all things. For as the one to be healed seeks the healing energies, the entity is attempting to bring into a more harmonious state of balance some portion or portions of its mind/body/spirit complex that are currently in such a state of disharmony, that they have begun to impinge upon the entity’s ability to learn or continue to incarnational pattern. The one to be healed, then, in seeking the offices of the healer, offers itself to the One Creator, that moves through the healer in whatever modality is utilized, and brings the two into a harmony for the moment of healing, shall we say–that moment in which the one to be healed accepts a new configuration of attitude in the metaphysical beingness from which the manifested third-density physical vehicle depends. Thus, the one to be healed brings itself to the healer in order that the work previously done by the healer in the healing arts, which have been practiced upon the self of the healer, so that this same river, if you will, of energy may engulf both the one to be healed and the healer. And for that moment of healing, these entities are, in the metaphysical sense, seen as one.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Yes, I have one more. Actually, I had two more, but I can [inaudible]. I have noticed I’ve been ill a lot in my life, according to the [inaudible]. I’ve noticed that when someone who really loves me is around, even if that person is doing absolutely nothing–off in a corner siting there doing his or her own thing–that I feel better, I feel more healing energy. And I was kind of surprised that you didn’t say anything about that whole area of healers that aren’t officially healers, but are unconsciously in some way. Could you comment?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, there are many areas of the healing process which we are not able to investigate at this time due to the limitations of time. The effect of which you speak is one which is oftentimes the most called upon form of healing in the unconscious sense. For any entity which has worked upon itself, shall we say, in order to bring itself into a more complete or fuller understanding of the mysteries of evolution of mind, body, and spirit, is an entity which has begun the healing or making-whole process within the self.

As this process continues within any entity, such an entity then is as a beacon–one who radiates this more intense level of harmony to those about it, so that those about it feel the healing or harmonious energy emanating from such an entity. Such emanations tend to cause one, who is what you would call ill, to begin to vibrate in synchronistic fashion with this entity’s healing vibrations. Thus, there is the feeling of peace and of increased wellness as a result.

Is there another query?

I have one. I had my friend who was a healer who had a calling [inaudible]. And it sounds like from your description that as both healer and healee [inaudible].

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. In such an instance, where the healer begins to take on those qualities of the one to be healed that are within the illness range, shall we say, this is oftentimes the result of a misconception on the part of the healer, which is that the healer heals. In truth, the healer does not heal. The healer allows healing energies to move through its being in some fashion so that, for the moment of healing, both the healer and the one to be healed are experiencing the same healing energies. It is not necessary nor advisable, however, for the healer to see itself as the one accomplishing the healing, for that attitude will, in some cases, attract to the healer those distortions being balanced by the one to be healed.

The healer, in order to be most efficacious or helpful, must see itself as a channel through which energies move–both the energies to heal and those distortions being given up by the one seeking the healing. These energies need to move through the healer and not remain with the healer. The attitude in this instance is critical for that to occur.

Is there another query, my sister?

I was wondering if [inaudible] create an opportunity [inaudible] what happens then?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Those energies being released by the one to be healed most often move back into the basic element of Earth, which is able to absorb all such energies and transmute them into a neutral state. It is well for the healer to offer some ritualized practice or object of practice that will aid this absorption of the distortions by the earth’s energies, such as the stomping of the feet upon the ground, the shaking of the fingertips to the ground, and so forth.

This may also be done mentally by either the healer or the one to be healed, so that the distortions are seen as leaving both entities and entering the Earth.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question. Those so-called healers that I know appear to have gone through a phase of being wounded and then being healed. Here, there’s this process of being a wounded healer, and wounding seems to make the healer a better healer. Could you comment on that?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. In truth, all healers have at some time been wounded, as you would say, or distorted in a certain fashion that is congruent with the preincarnative choices for lessons to be learned. Each lesson to be learned begins as its antithesis, so that, for example, if there is love for an entity to be learned, that this may begin as a dislike or lack of compassion for an entity or a quality.

The healer is one who has been able to apply certain principles to its own incarnational pattern, and through the application of these principles, has been able to affect its attitude in the metaphysical sense to the degree that it becomes, what you would call, healed. This healing then is accomplished by the work of the healer upon the self.

Oftentimes, there are additional lessons or woundings that are necessary for any entity, including those called healers, that will allow the healer to experience a transformation that will not only benefit the healer in the personal metaphysical sense, but will allow it to present itself in a more purified or potent form as a healer, able to open to the universal healing energy of the One Creator more efficiently for those who seek the healer’s services.

Is there another query, my brother?

No. Thank you so much.

I am Q’uo. And again, we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I don’t have any questions. Thank you.

I’m looking for the answer to a question, and it has to do with an exploration of [inaudible] parts of the Earth on which we live, and how we serve this energy to their location for a certain healing sort of power that is inherent near that spot. Those spots can be very natural spots on the surface, or they can be spots that have been created by man’s handling of the planet. And I’m curious about whether we all have this sort of energy within us that can create these spots in our own backyard, so to speak. Could you explore that for a period of time?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my brother. It is indeed true that there are many physical locations upon your planetary surface that are efficacious in the healing process, for they remind the one to be healed, either consciously or subconsciously, of certain qualities that may be necessary for a healing to occur. Such areas also offer various beneficial qualities, such as the negative ions that are generated in your streams when the surface of the water is broken by rocks or falls. There are inspirational qualities available from the distant view of mountains or scenery of a physical nature, so that the entity observing such may be inspired to place the mind upon certain principles that remind it of its connection to this natural environment. And through the exploration of this connection over a period of time, the entity may be able to bring itself into a more complete balance, offering to the self a less distorted experience, or one which is more whole or healthy, as you call it.

There is also the possibility that any entity seeking to create a physical location with healing in mind may so infuse this location with its intention to heal, that this intention will become an energy vortex in that area that will offer to the one constructing it and all who enter thereafter the harmonious vibrations of that intention. The subconscious mind of each entity works through such construction of physical location in a way that allows the placement of artifacts to reflect the subconscious need and idealization of the healing process.

For indeed, each entity upon your planet may be said to be seeking healing, for each is wounded by a perceived lack of love in some degree. And the healing process, in its most basic elements, is that process which introduces love into some portion of the entity’s personality where it has been lacking previously. Thus, as an entity seeks to construct a location that will facilitate the healing process, the entity is constructing a subconscious understanding of the environment of healing within the subconscious mind. There are certain relationships that are brought forth into the conscious mind and therefrom into the physical environment that will, by their placement, inspire this feeling of harmony, wholeness, health, and healing.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, I thank you for the explanation.

I am Q’uo. And as we are aware that this has been a lengthy session and that energies are beginning to dwindle, we shall at this time take our leave of this group, thanking each for inviting our presence. It is a great honor and a joy for us to blend our vibrations with yours, and to walk with you for this time upon your journey of seeking. We cannot thank you enough for this blessing.

We are those of Q’uo and, at this time, shall leave this group, as always, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

