Hatonn: My friends, we suggest that the creation of unity and the One Creator, which underlies all created forms, supports you at every instant, though at times you will not recognize that support. At times, it will seem that you drift aimlessly and are quite adrift without any apparent aid at hand. Yet the nature of your illusion is such that in such times, great opportunities present themselves for the learning of the love and the joy that exists limitlessly within each moment, no matter what the illusion the moment rides upon.

(Charlie channeling)

I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, as always, in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.

We have been listening to the sounds of nature that you hear around you this evening. We have been enjoying the music that your surroundings continuously play for you, my friends.

Many are the lessons with which you now face. As you grow, each new lesson seems harder, but each new lesson is another facet of the ones you have been dealing with. The new facet will help you to further open yourself to the love, the light. The music surrounds you - it is you.

We of Hatonn will always be available to aid as we may. We will be with you in calling. We are, like yourselves, continuously learning, and find great joy and comfort when we aid as we may.

My friends, we wish that you might take a few moments and listen to your surroundings. Hear the beauty of your planet.

We are known to you as Hatonn. We will now leave this instrument so that you may listen and feel love around you. I am Hatonn.

(Jim channeling)

I am Hatonn, and greet you once again in love and light. We thank the one known as Charlie for allowing us to speak through his instrument. It is a great honor to utilize any entity who wishes to be of service, as we wish, to the One Creator. We would speak a few words through this instrument as well.

To continue our thought, we would speak briefly upon the concept that you call faith. We are aware that, as you move through your lives, there are those portions upon which you feel you may count: the sunrises each day; your peoples move about in interchange of energy and ideas. In some way you will partake and somehow all will be well. Within these general parameters, you move and have your being. Yet from time to time, as you search for what will follow that which is now, a question arises in your mind, especially if your experience should become heavier, shall we say, with the difficulties of learning and serving. The question arises: How can one survive? How will one continue? What will be the source of the solution to this or that problem?

My friends, as you look about you, you see a creation which is whole and perfect. Yet it may not seem so at times, for you may look with an eye which sees in a narrow fashion. An eye which does not perceive wholeness nor perfection, but sees perhaps that which is incomplete and that which is difficult and that which threatens - seemingly - the wellbeing of the self or of loved ones.

As you continue to experience such a situation, the strength of your will and your faith will be your allies, shall we say. For each of you shall meet those times which are difficult, as each of you have met them in your past, as you call it. And though each previous difficult experience has then successfully met in your past, you may feel somewhat unsure as to your success in meeting the present difficulties. You inhabit an illusion in which there is no sure knowledge. You move within a forgetting that you might begin to remember. You have no sure guidepost, yet each of you continues to move in some fashion. We suggest that your faith is that which shall carry you upon the uncertain trail, as you continue your journey of seeking the truth.

“Faith in what?” you may ask. Shall one place faith in a friend? Shall one place faith in an institution? Shall one place faith in that which was a successful method of operation in what you call your past? Shall one place faith in what one knows or thinks one knows? Shall one place faith in a philosophy of this or that religion, group, or culture? Where shall the faith be placed, my friends? Where shall you focus that great energy?

It is as though you have a great power at your command, yet how shall one use it? My friends, we cannot give you a sure-fire answer, shall we say, for each shall use the gift of faith in whatever manner the entity feels is most appropriate. Each of those avenues which we have mentioned, and many others as well, are possible considerations as for where the faith shall be placed.

We are aware that each of you knows that the unity of your being with all creation is a concept in which faith may be placed. It is a concept which we have found to be efficacious. It is a concept which we have found, through great periods and times of testing, as you would call it, to be the most sound of which we know. If it be true that you are one with all, and if you place your faith in that seemingly foolish concept, you will not immediately see the fruits of that faith and that placement. For your illusion is so constructed that your experiences will seem to be the experiences of individual and separated entities, one from the other. You will be given countless seeming affirmations of that illusion. It will seem that one cannot count upon a friend, upon a stranger, upon an unseen Creator, upon a concept of unity that supposedly permeates all that is. And yet my friends, what is responsible for bringing you to the point at which you now find yourselves? Was it luck, the use of cold intellect, or perhaps chance?

My friends, we suggest that the creation of unity and the One Creator, which underlies all created forms, supports you at every instant, though at times you will not recognize that support. At times, it will seem that you drift aimlessly and are quite adrift without any apparent aid at hand. Yet the nature of your illusion is such that in such times, great opportunities present themselves for the learning of the love and the joy that exists limitlessly within each moment, no matter what the illusion the moment rides upon.

Yes, my friends, this process does work, whether you have faith in it or not. The purpose then of faith is to make your acceptance of this process of learning easier. But it does work, my friends. For you are the One which moves seen and unseen through all your experiences. You are the One which seeks. You are the One which finds. You are the One that is found. And though understanding of this process is quite limited in your illusion, your faith in it will make its working more accessible to you as you move upon your path.

We thank each of you for allowing us to speak our humble words, and we shall be with you whenever requested. We shall leave this group at this time so that our brothers and sisters of Latwii may perform their service as well. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus. I am Hatonn.

I am Latwii and am with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the Infinite Creator. We also thank you for allowing us to join your group this evening. It’s always an honor to speak to those who, like us, seek the One Creator.

Our service is that of attempting to answer those queries which you have brought with you and which you ponder within your meeting. Again, we remind you that our words are but mere opinion, and we suggest that you weigh each with that in mind. It is with great joy that we ask if we might begin with the first query.

[Pause]

I am Latwii, and we seem to have drawn a blank, my friends. This is quite unusual. We are aware that the entities which usually serve as the starters, shall we say, for this process are not present this evening. Yet we felt there was a question or two which we might attempt a response to. If not about your recent Derby, then perhaps another topic. We shall again ask if there might be a query to which we might attempt a response.

[Pause]

I am Latwii, and we are aware that, though there are some concerns which could be formed into that called the question, that at this time there is no question which is pressing upon the mind. The great silence and loving unasked queries then shall receive our great silent loving response.

We thank each of you for allowing us a presence within your meeting, and remind you that we are most grateful for each request to join you, whether in group meeting or in your private meditations. We are most honored to seek the One with you, for in truth, the One we seek is everywhere within our seeking.

We are those of Latwii and shall be with you again. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

