(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. We greet each of you in love and in light. We are always honored to be invited to join your circle of seeking. It is our way of advancing ourselves upon the service-to-others path as we attempt to serve you. Thusly, you give us a great gift by inviting our presence. As always, we would remind you that we are not what you would call ultimate authorities. We are your brothers and sisters who have traveled some distance further upon the same path that you, yourselves, travel now. So, if you will take the words and thoughts that we give you and use them as you will, leaving behind any that do not ring of truth to you, then we will feel free to speak as we may.

At this time, we would ask if anyone has a query with which we may begin?

Is the famous Shroud of Turin the actual burial cloth of the historical Jesus of Nazareth who was crucified by Pontius Pilot?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. This most honored and historical fabric of the path of the one known as Jesus, the Christ, has been investigated throughout many years by various groups and individuals who have found that there is, indeed, a kind of negative, you might say, a picture of the one known as Jesus that is imbedded within the fabric of this cloth. It is made in such a fashion that pure science has no real grasp upon the verification or nullification of the possibility of its being the actual burial shroud of the one known as Jesus, the Christ.

This is for the reason that it is most important that those who believe strongly in such possibilities may have the ability to continue that belief, knowing in their heart what the truth is, and that any other entities who have little or no interest in such a fabric and its history and value, may be able to dismiss it without giving it a second thought. Therefore, we say to you, that if, in your heart, you believe this fabric is that which it is said to be, indeed, it is so.

Is there another query at this time?

I’d like to know if there are service-to-self wanderers.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The service-to-self oriented wanderer is much less likely to be in existence because of the great amount of danger that there is in the forgetting process, for each wanderer who wishes to be of service, whether to self or other selves, upon any third-density planet, must-needs then go through the forgetting process, passing through the veil of forgetting, so that its true identity is not known to itself and it must discover that identity as a process of its enlightenment and engaging in the service to others portion of its incarnation. 1 Thus, many wanderers have come to this planet of a positive nature and have had difficulty in remembering the reason for the incarnation, and the path that they had chosen previous to the incarnation to take when here. That does not nullify their effort, nor depolarize their polarity, but removes from them the opportunity to be of the service they had hoped to be.

Thus, the negatively oriented wanderer, well aware of this potential, is quite cautious in making any type of a movement through the veil of forgetting.

However, there have been some few who have done so. These entities have been able to make their presence felt in a manner which one might be likened to the assuming of roles of power and authority over others, making their dominion the pinnacle of their achievement in this illusion, finding those who are elite, and then by these elite, enslaving others who are not seen as elite. Therefore, in your historical past, there are various entities that we shall not name, for this would be an abridgment of freewill, however, they have been recorded in your history records and are known to some in this particular illusion at this time.

Is there another query at this time?

I have a query, Q’uo, and it relates to something you explained last week regarding a process of meditation and aligning oneself with one’s greatest good or highest good, and then seeking to serve others as a way of dealing with or positively engaging with difficult energies that are as a result of instreaming cosmic energies at this time that you explained about, and that sometimes these can stir up difficulties among other selves and between them, and so you had said that a great help to this would be to meditate and more often during the day as well, but particularly the beginning of the day align oneself with one’s highest good, and then meditate upon that and then seek ways to serve others. I would like to ask if you would elaborate on that further—explain further how that would be and how it would help.

I am Quo and am aware of your query, my sister. The fourth-density vibrations that are continuing to engulf this planetary sphere, have their origin within the deep spaces of the universe that surround you. There are various sources of energies that are attracted to a planet such as your Earth, your Mother Earth is making the transition from the third into the fourth density of love and understanding.

These energies are streaming towards the Earth and engulfing it, for the purpose of giving the population of the planet a greater and greater opportunity to use the lessons that each has programmed preincarnatively, in a more and more effective manner. These energies serve as what you might call the magnifying glass that make more obvious and more important these energies of innovation, of creation, of beginning a new path of finding a stronger journey, of being of more service to others.

In some instances, the way in which these lessons and energies are manifested can be in what might be seen to be traumatic or difficult circumstances, for much of learning comes from dealing with what you would call trauma or difficulty or doubt or confusion. Thusly, when these energies strike certain individuals who are not consciously aware of the process of seeking that they have engaged in in this incarnation, yet the energies that they have set in motion previous to the incarnation are affected by the fourth-density vibrations streaming through them and to them.

Thus, this makes a kind of confusion within the entity so that in its interpersonal relationships, perhaps with you or another, or many others, there is the opportunity and possibility of some difficulty in communication, in understanding, in opening the heart in love, in being able to give as well as receive, all of these various types of propensities are available to each seeker at all times. Therefore, the enhancing of these abilities can oftentimes cause more confusion if the entity is not consciously aware of its own process of seeking spiritual truth.

If you, on the other hand, have this knowledge within your beingness that allows you to be aware of the purpose of your incarnation as being some facet of giving and receiving that known as unconditional love, then you will have, shall we say, an advantage, in that you will be able to offer this service to any other entity that comes within your reach within your daily round of activities. If then, in your daily meditations to begin the day, you look at that which you have to offer, whatever your strengths may be, whatever your lessons may be, and see that this is something that you wish to make available whenever necessary, then this is something that both your conscious and subconscious minds can grasp in a manner which is helpful, both to you, and to any entity that you might come in contact with.

Thusly, you have the advantage of being able to open your heart in love in those instances where another entity, not as conscious of a way of doing this as are you, might have a difficulty, and there might ensue a greater and greater arguing environment, where there is little understanding that is achieved, and no love that is given. Thusly, your meditation prepares you to offer the spiritual food of your open heart whenever you meet another hungering soul.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you, Quo. That was most helpful.

I am Quo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

[Long pause.]

I am Quo and as we seem to have exhausted the queries, we would commence with a small thought to offer through this instrument at this time.

Each of the seekers present here today has been a blessing for the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator of which we are but one member. The Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator has as its goal, the reaching of as many spiritual seekers of truth as possible to plant the seeds of love, of wisdom, and of unity, within each heart and soul, so that these seeds may sprout, and grow, and bloom, and in their time give forth the scent of the unconditional love of the One Infinite Creator that resides within each being, within each iota of creation.

Know ye then, that you are the One Infinite Creator, you are that which you seek. The One Infinite Creator has created each of us in the entire creation in order that we might go forth with its very genes as our beingness to explore more and more choices of free will that give the One Creator a greater and greater knowledge of itself so that it may know itself in ways not possible without our freewill choices that we make in each incarnation, the many, many incarnations that take us through all the densities of creation, back into unity with the One Infinite Creator.

Thus, each of you is a treasure that we, of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator, humbly observe and honor and love as if you were our own, as indeed you are. You are all part of our being, and we are part of yours, as the Creator is that common bond between us all. And in that love and in that light at this time, we shall take our leave, leaving you as we found you, in that love, that light, and the unity of the One. We are known to you as those of Quo. Adonai vasu borragus.

This paragraph is quite confusing in the contrast between service to others and service to self, and the effect of the veil of forgetting upon wanderers of both polarities. ↩

