(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and greet each of you in love and in light. We are honored to be asked to join your circle of seeking this afternoon. It is always a pleasure to be with this group. You are as old friends and old souls with whom we have become quite familiar over the years, and we are always most honored to be here. And, as always, we begin our channeling with you by asking you to do us the favor of taking the words and the concepts which we share with you today and use them as you will, leaving behind any that do not strike a cord of resonance within your being.

We would not become a stumbling block to you, my friends. We have moved only a small distance further upon the same path which you now tread. We are your brothers and sisters. We are not ultimate authorities. We share what we feel is important with you, and hope we might be of service to you by doing so. So, if you will do us this small favor, taking the words that have value to you and using them as you will, we may speak as we can.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

In the context of Ra’s, “Know yourself, accept yourself, become the Creator,” 1 focusing on the becoming the Creator, becoming more as you and Ra have said, knowing more and more deeply who you truly are and being that as our purpose here, could you speak to living that becoming the Creator versus where to place the desires and hopes that come around that versus putting a will behind your desires and hopes versus personifying the will of the higher self and magical personality of becoming the Creator? If that makes sense.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is a salient query for all seekers of truth, for at some point within the spiritual journey, each of you shall have many opportunities to do just that, to become the Creator. As you have laid the foundation in knowing yourself as you are, as a third-density being within this illusion, perhaps as that which is called a wanderer who has taken on the vestment of the third density and come to be of service to all others upon this planetary sphere, you create within yourself a kind of momentum based upon this fundamental knowledge that you are here to serve, to seek and to serve the Creator in all.

At this point in your journey, you look upon each entity that you encounter in your daily round of activities as your other-self: firstly, a being just as you are who seeks the One in some fashion, whether consciously or unconsciously, and who seeks to become a servant of the One in all that you meet. Then you seek to know more of that self that you are, that self that has experiences throughout the day that meets the catalyst of the day, the opportunities to expand the awareness, to process that which is unknown so that it becomes known, to process each feature of your experience so that it is recorded as helpful knowledge within your being that helps you to move further and further along the path of seeking the One in all.

To become the Creator in this process, it is helpful if you are able to make contact with the deeper levels of your own being that would include your own unconscious mind so that you draw from this wealth of information those qualities and essences that may aid you in your journey of seeking and serving the One. Oftentimes these qualities are of a nature of a spiritual yearning—a seeking beyond the normal realm of the self that has a history, that has a present, that desires a future—that you realize that you have roots that move back in the precipice or the point of time that you now exhibit and experience so that you connect yourself to those previous incarnational experiences that have built the foundation upon which you now stand and move forward from. It is also helpful if you are able to make contact with those guides, or spiritual qualities that are of assistance to you within each incarnation, that you may be informed of certain facets of your own being that may expand your knowledge of who it is you really are.

Also, upon the list of those essences or qualities that are helpful to make contact with is your higher self which contacts you as you are asking for such contact, whether it be in your dreams, in your meditations, or in your daily rounds of experiences, so that you are aware that you are meeting entities and experiences that are not just coincidental, but are pivotal in the seeking that you are engaged in.

Thus armed with such a wealth of information, then we suggest that, within your meditative state, you allow these qualities and essences to find a place within your experience and your knowledge [so] that you can call upon [them] at any time within your daily round of activities. [Then] that which is your higher self, or as some have called it, your magical personality, becomes available to you to help you interpret the nature of those catalytic experiences that are always presenting themselves to you as opportunities to expand your awareness and your ability to move further and further along your spiritual path.

Thus, as you become more aware of who you are, you become more aware of how the Creator moves in your being through each step that you take, especially within your meditative state. If you invoke the Creator within and ask of that Creator to move through you this day, as all days, and to express itself to you in a way in which you are able to discern that there is an expansion of your awareness occurring throughout the day that you experience, then you become more and more familiar with this quality of the Creator that resides within your very being. [Then] when you invoke it, you are calling upon the greater portion of your being to make itself apparent to you, that you may see how the Creator meets you in every experience, in every day, throughout your life, so that you may see with clearer eyes, with an open heart, with clear communication, with the ability to create changes in your own consciousness as a result of processing the catalyst that you find yourself emerged in throughout every day.

The Creator, then, is able to become more available to you, more real to you, more present with you, as you discover that it is that quality within your being that has always been there—that still, small voice within that guides you, that leads you, that inspires you, that comforts you, that is such a companion as you have been dimly aware of throughout your entire experience. As you become more and more familiar with this Creator within that is all things, you remember previous experiences within this life in which this contact was made and magical things begin to occur at the time it was made and throughout your life experience from that point forward.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Thank you, no thank you.

I am Q’uo, we thank you, my sister.

Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. I would like to ask: How one can address heart desires, despite previously made commitments?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. If we understand your query correctly, you are asking how the desires of your heart, which seem to operate without conscious control may be allowed to do so without infringing upon the freewill of others. Is this correct, my brother?

It is somehow correct. Maybe I will go a little bit further, saying, how can one address the old commitments being made despite needing of making new commitments based on acting on new heart’s desires?

I am Q’uo, and believe that we understand your query more clearly now, my brother. The commitment of the heart is that which each of you within this third-density illusion is attempting to make, for the heart is the center of unconditional love, which is the goal of each third-density entity to realize within the life pattern. For the unconditional love of all is that being that is able to find a means by which the One Creator moves through its essence, through its energy centers, through its daily round of activities.

As you take this unconditional love and let it move into individual expression of another entity in what you may call the romantic sense, in the sense of commitment to a journey together in some fashion, then you are making a change, shall we say, a directional change, in the unconditional love, so that that which is called the “bonding between two hearts” may occur and may provide each entity with the type of inspiration and partnership in cooperation that each will be able to aid the other as this journey of seeking continues with two becoming one. This is the type of commitment which is the expression of the unconditional love for all that has been funneled or pointed in a certain direction for a certain purpose, and this is the means by which many upon your plane of the third-density illusion begin the process of the total opening of the heart chakra to express love without condition to each entity and experience which one meets throughout the lifetime of experience.

We are aware that many entities find themselves seemingly thrown into a loving relationship with another in which there seems to be no conscious choice in the matter. There is rather the recognition upon the level of the basic being that this love exists without there having been any previous desire or expectation that such would occur. We are aware that oftentimes this can become somewhat unsettling as one feels that one may be intruding upon a certain level of personality or private personality, shall we say, that is not in accordance with what one would wish if the choice was made consciously. However, as a choice has seemingly been made upon the unconscious level, and the conscious mind must simply recognize it in one fashion or another, then the choice is to be made by determining within your meditative state, the appropriate direction that can be taken in each instance in which the experience is shared with the other self, which is the object of the loving affections.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother.

Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, with the increasing vibrations of our energetic body as we progress in our spiritual practices, do our physical bodies reflect this higher frequency to allow our body to access higher aspects of the genetic programming of our DNA?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. As each seeker of truth makes itself available to the fourth-density cosmic streamings of love and understanding that are engulfing your planet at this time, there is a kind of transformation that begins, as you have surmised, within the energetic body so that there is a kind of electrification, you might say, of these cosmic energies that begin to have an effect upon all portions of the mind, body and spirit complex so that there is the opportunity to raise the level of functioning of the mind, the body and the spirit in a fashion which is congruent with the instreaming of cosmic energies.

The physical body itself is the last, or shall we say, least, of the portions of the mind/body/spirit complex to be affected as it is a representation of the mind in a more material or mundane form, so that the energies that are first perceived spiritually, and then gravitate to the mind, become available to the body in a more indirect fashion so that the body itself, though having its DNA connections enhanced, is somewhat slower in the expression of these energies in a physical sense.

However, if one is carefully attuned to one’s own body, one may discover that there are certain feelings of the body complex that may be perceived as being an increase in the vibration of the body itself so that the body seems more attuned to the daily round of activities, more able to blend itself in action with the direction of the mind in accomplishing those tasks of a physical nature that are now done more, shall we say, harmoniously, and with a kind of inner rhythm of beingness so that there is a pleasure that is taken emotionally and mentally by the entity as it observes its body being able to move in a more congruent way with the higher vibrations. This type of perception is only available to those who are particularly tuned in, shall we say, to their physical complex. Many entities upon the planet at this time of the third-density nature are somewhat estranged from their body complexes, as the body is often seen as the lesser of the expressions of the One Creator that need, or might benefit from, the attention of the entity to the upkeep of the physical body with the greater portion of attention given to the evolution of the mind and the spirit.

However, we are always glad to suggest to entities that the body complex is that gallant steed which carries you about within the third-density illusion, and this steed needs its care and comfort as well, as the loving expression of the seeker gives that type of attention to its own physical vehicle.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Well, is this feeling of higher functioning, I guess, of the physical body, is it connected at all to the genetic coding? I’m just wondering if there’s any connection to the evolution of the human body as we do move into fourth-density physical, that the genetic coding is changing with our higher functioning, physical functioning?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would answer this in short in the affirmative, suggesting that the ability of the body to realize and express the enhanced genetic coding is a function of the seeker’s conscious and spiritually directed focusing of these greater energies of the fourth density upon the body complex, perhaps within the meditative state, or perhaps within the means by which the body is given its sustenance and its care, its exercise and its love, shall we say.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Just that does this have anything to do with the physical evolution for the humans as we approach fourth density.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Yes, this is indeed the case.

Is there a further query at this time?

Hi, Q’uo. Thank you for speaking with us. I was wondering about food and the diet, specifically eating high vibrational foods. What would your advice be for those of us who are trying to align ourselves with higher vibration, and just increase our vibration regarding our diet? I know there are a lot of harmful chemicals in the food, including the water, and I just wanted to know just what we can do to protect ourselves from these harmful chemicals and what can we tell others to encourage them?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, the diet is that quality of one’s being that is most usually overlooked by many seekers of truth, for there is within each seeker the desire for certain foodstuffs that it has become familiar with throughout the raising from the point of being the child, to the teenager and the adult, and so forth. There are certain proclivities or tendencies to eat those foods which one is most familiar with. However, as one is moving forward in the spiritual journey, the entire process of seeking becomes more attuned to the higher vibrations, and this attunement may be reflected in the choice of the foodstuffs which are offered to the body. The respect for the body is often made apparent by the types of foods that are sought and ingested.

The investigation that you have begun yourself to inform yourself as to the types of foods that might be more helpful is a good place in which to begin the seeking for that type of diet that is most helpful to your own metabolism, shall we say. There are general guidelines that are often used by many entities to construct the dietary patterns that are then utilized in the daily round of activities. These types of investigations may oftentimes be conflicting with other entities’ choices for themselves—for we would suggest that body metabolism and that which would aid one entity may not necessarily aid another, for each is unique and has the requirements that are oftentimes not easily ascertained. There are certain balances within each body complex that may be examined to determine what type of foods would be more appropriate than others.

One must look in the beginning to the general health of the body, to the ability of the body to function in a normal fashion, so that any anomalies or difficulties that might be experienced by the body may be taken into account when constructing a new dietary regiment. We are aware that many entities have different types of bodily distortions that are due to the catalyst of the daily round of activities not being completely or perfectly perceived by the mind and utilized by the mind, so that there is the necessity then to give to the body some type of a distortion that will attract the attention of the entity that it might utilize the catalyst which was not recognized mentally. Each seeker of truth must-needs find the types of bodily distortions that it is experiencing and look there for the first type of treatment of these distortions being the mental determining or processing of the catalyst that has been, shall we say, ignored or only partially used.

Thus, during this process of discovering the type of catalyst that needs to be utilized more effectively, the body may need to be given a different type of foodstuff that would enable the body to temporarily deal with the distortion that comes from the imperfect use of catalyst. If the entities, or entity, seeking the dietary process of perfecting the diet begins with this initial discovery of the state of being of the body, then the more general determination of foodstuffs, according to their quality and their balance in the diet in meeting the body’s needs may then be carried out.

We cannot make blanket statements to discover for each entity what foodstuffs are most appropriate. We would suggest that within the meditative state that the information which has been found in researching the qualities and types of foods be considered, so that the unconscious mind, or the higher self, perhaps, may aid in the determination of the kinds of foodstuffs that are most appropriate. We would suggest that the more purified foodstuffs, without the great enhancement of chemical preservatives and colorations, be a basic consideration in any determining of the dietary manner of proceeding with foodstuffs that you are offering to your body.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister.

Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, in Ra’s cosmology, before infinity became aware, it was without distortion. The moment, so to speak, that infinity became aware and discerned a concept—that it could and would know itself—the First Distortion was born, what Ra alternatingly calls the Law of Confusion and the Law of Freewill. And from that first distortion springs the infinite universes and infinite distortions. Can you describe what Ra means by “distortion”? What is a distortion?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. As far as we are able to determine, a distortion is any permutation or change from unity. Unity, then, being that quality from which all that is made comes. Unity itself is homogeneous, shall we say. It is as it is. There is no mark or disturbance of unity, there is only the intelligent infinity. When the First Distortion, or Free Will, came into being, then there was the possibility of utilizing portions of that unity to create a beingness, an expression, an alteration of that unity that would utilize that unity to allow the Creator to make what you see as the one creation.

Any distortion is a permutation of unity. Any distortion is a reflection of some portion of unity. All distortions require the beginning of unity to be formed in such and such a manner so that there is a movement away from total unity into that which is the infinite creation. Thus, any distortion may utilize unity to create any thing, any universe, any being, any experience, any concept that is itself a distortion.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Thank you. Is there any way to elaborate on what is meant when something is more distorted versus less distorted?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. In our belief, in our perception of this statement, we see that distortion is more distortion when it is seemingly of a more mundane… more of a quality which reflects less of the unity from which it has been made. Thus, in Logos is a distortion of unity but [of] such an equal, shall we say, or nearly equal distortion to unity, that it is of a, shall we say, higher level of distortion. As we move further and further down the chain of creation to planetary beings that are not completely of the eighth density nature of expression, there is more distortion apparent. As we move into types of living lifeforms upon the planetary sphere, there is greater distortion, for there is less of the appearance of unity within the creation that is experienced as any type of life form.

The experiences of various lifeforms then may be seen to be further distortions from unity in that they may indeed seem to be at odds with each other, one type of lifeform in an adversary relationship with another type of lifeform, so that the expression of unity is even further and further from conscious awareness. Thus, as we continue to move into various types of experiences for various types of lifeforms, be they first-, second-, or third-density lifeforms, there is more and more distortion available to each expression. Yet, each distortion does partake of unity, for each distortion is made from unity.

Is there a further query, my brother?

I could squeak out a few more from this. I’ll just ask one more, in gratitude—[these are] really excellent answers. I understand distortion on this scale: of unity at one end and separation at the other, or, the One at one end, and the many at the other, where more distortion moves toward the pole of separation, less distortion moves towards the pole, if it can be so-called, of unity. But, Ra also seems to use distortion in a sense between any two polarized values. For instance, they say that this particular house that we occupy now, it was very distorted toward angelic presences and light and blessing, and they said another time that one could be more distorted toward love. 2 Is there another sense that the word “distortion” is used between any two polarized values?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest using the term “expression of” so that any quality that might be considered a distortion towards might also be seen as a quality that is an expression of. [In this way] there could be more and more intensity of expression of beauty, of truth, of separation, of ugliness, of adversary relationship, so that there is the quality of more of one sense of an entity, or of beauty, of joy, of understanding, of separation, and so forth. There is, indeed, then, the different type of use of “distortion” in this regard that sees distortion as a range, as a degree of expression of a certain kind of quality, rather than a simple movement away from unity.

So, in the sense of the more general use of “distortion,” there is the original answer that we gave concerning movement away from unity as we proceed in the creation towards more and more individualization of the creation. There is also the use of “distortion”in the sense that there is more or less of a certain quality available in the creation of a certain aspect, shall we say, of the creation.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, I’ll stop there. Thank you so much.

I am Q’uo. We thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?

I have a question, Q’uo. Could you elaborate on the uses of the visualized merkabah for protection and healing?

I am Q’uo and believe that we are aware of your query. Please correct us if we are mistaken.

The merkabah, as we are aware of this quality, is a type of expression of the unity of the One Creator that may be seen as an, shall we say, crystalline being, a type of being or essence which reflects the unity of the creation in an individualized sense so that the merkabah becomes a symbol to the seeker that may utilize the visualization in the meditative state of the crystalline nature of its own being, so that the seeker itself is able to perceive the merkabah existing within its own being, and being reflected in the experience of the seeker in its daily round of activities. The crystalline nature of this merkabah being that which is able to find a connection between the seeker and each other self, or each other experience, that therefore becomes likened unto a crystal itself, the seeker and the relationship that it holds with all other entities and all other things becoming much like any crystal that has various relationships, various angles of relationship, various qualities of reflection, various qualities of perfection, various qualities of the entirety of the creation contained within each moment, and each experience of the seeker.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

We thank you, my brother.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group. We thank each once again for inviting our presence this day. It has been a joy and an honor to be with you. You are inspirations to us as always. We leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

The Law of One, Book III, Session 74:

The heart of the discipline of the personality is threefold. One, know yourself. Two, accept yourself. Three, become the Creator.

The third step is that step which, when accomplished, renders one the most humble servant of all, transparent in personality and completely able to know and accept other-selves. In relation to the pursuit of the magical working the continuing discipline of the personality involves the adept in knowing itself, accepting itself, and thus clearing the path towards the great indigo gateway to the Creator. To become the Creator is to become all that there is. There is then no personality in the sense with which the adept begins its learn/teaching. As the consciousness of the indigo ray becomes more crystalline, more work may be done; more may be expressed from intelligent infinity.

The Law of One, entries from Session 55 and 106:

This location is greatly distorted. We find an acceptable description of this location’s quality to elude us without recourse to hackneyed words. Forgive our limitations of expression. The domicile and its rear aspect, especially, is blessèd and angelic presences have been invoked for some of your time past.

There is no magic greater than honest distortion toward love.

