(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and greet each in love and in light. We are honored once again to be called to your circle of seeking this day. We feel that there is a great deal that you have upon your minds and within your hearts that you would like to ask us this day, and we feel that there is much that you have to offer us as well in your own journey of seeking as inspiration, for we are, as you know, your brothers and sisters who move with you upon this journey of seeking the One Infinite Creator within each portion of the one creation. We share that which we have as you share that which you have, and as always, we would begin by asking you to realize that we are not ultimate authorities. If you will simply take those words and thoughts that we offer you that have meaning for you and use them as you will, discarding those that have no meaning for you, then we can speak freely and not become any kind of stumbling block on your journey of seeking.

At this time, may we ask for the first query?

Thank you, Q’uo. I have a query, and parts of it, at least, may be shared by others here, asking about a greater understanding of the cosmic instreaming energies into the Earth at this time. It is felt by some that they are stronger energies, of course of positive energy frequency that help to raise up the Earth and all of us to higher frequency. However, it feels more challenging. It feels a call to be more in alignment with our own truth, and the truth of all things. It feels like these such energies may be increasingly stirring up things to be healed within people, within society. Perhaps these energies, we feel the increase, but we also ask if any of these increased pressures are felt because of increased solar activity that is producing more solar flares at this time that may also be impacting those of us on Earth. Thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, your birth sphere is, at this time, engulfed in a procession of vibratory energy expressions that stream from various sources from distant galaxies that are in resonance with your particular solar system so that there is a kind of overshadowing, or shepherding effect as these energies continue to increase in their intensity and in their variety of expressions upon your planetary sphere.

Your Sun body is also subject to these same instreamings in a manner which causes it to become more active in its life-giving role for your planetary sphere, for the light and love, or prana, which flows from your Sun body and brings life and light to your planetary sphere, is also cyclical in nature. When the cycles of both the cosmic instreamings and your solar revolutionary expressions of love/light coincide, there is an increased effect upon not only your Earth sphere, but also upon those entities that inhabit your Earth at this time.

Not all of the population of your planet is in the harmonious resonance with these energies as are many of you who seek consciously the nature of the incarnational experience. For those who consciously seek in this manner to enhance their own journey of living and loving the experience and all about them, this is most helpful, for it blends with their conscious desire to receive just such energies. Even though they may be at such a level of vibration that it is necessary to retire into meditation more frequently in order to handle, shall we say, the quantity and quality of vibrational frequencies now available in your everyday life experience.

The meditative state is one which allows the seeker of truth to raise his or her own vibrations to whatever level is necessary to incorporate the cosmic instreamings and the solar flare activity that are all pointed towards the enhancing of the spiritual path. In the way of being able to discern those activities and qualities that are most important to be pursued and expressed in the incarnational pattern.

Those entities who are not conscious of this process of incarnational seeking on the spiritual path have much difficulty in that they, though not consciously aware of such energies, unconsciously are aware that such is occurring. And there is a, shall we say, mismatch between the perception and the experience so that there is much of mental and emotional confusion that results for those who are not ready at this time to look upon the life experience as that which teaches how to open the heart in unconditional love.

When such experiences, then, are had by entities that are not yet consciously aware of the incarnational purpose, then there can be much of what you call the mental imbalance, or mental disease, looking at the word “dis-ease” as that which is a representation of the lack of clarity, lack of purpose that is yet to be cured, or aided, by any kind of spiritual seeking. Therefore, it is oftentimes the case that such entities will begin to thrash about in an unusual fashion, becoming unreasonable, becoming irritated, becoming divisive, becoming filled with confusion and the qualities of consciousness that separate one from another as they attempt to retreat within their own being to solve what they consciously do not understand, and subconsciously are unable to attract to their own life pattern.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Yes, thank you, Q’uo. I would like to ask what is the wisdom that you may offer as to the best way for those of us who are spiritual seekers seeking to raise our vibration to the higher levels on our spiritual path, but also wanting to do it with light and love and consideration for all for these ones that you describe who are maybe thrashing about or having confusion. What is the best way that you could offer us to be with them, to interact with them?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. We would recommend that you, in your meditative state to begin your day, align yourself with the greatest good, shall we say, that is available to you at this time, and be willing to offer this fruit of your journey of seeking to any who ask for assistance in whatever way the asking may occur. Be open intuitively to the needs of those about you as you feel yourself moving into resonance with their state of being. If they are able to express a certain kind of query, or need to you, look then within to that reservoir of your own beingness which may respond in the appropriate manner at the appropriate time.

We feel there are very few strict rules for such interaction with others, for each entity is unique and each experience with another entity doubly unique, so that in general, if you can prepare yourself for such encounters that allow you to ask within, at the time of the encounter, how best to serve, then open yourself at that time to the will of the one who is within all, including the entity who wishes service from you.

Is there another query, my sister?

No, thank you. That is very helpful, Q’uo. Thank you.

I am Q’uo. Is there another query at this time?

In a recent channeling practice circle session, those of Q’uo spoke to a question about the value of bodily catalyst and how to utilize it in our spiritual journey. I was hoping you might offer insight into bodily catalyst of those of us who are aging, especially if you could help us understand if there’s a difference between the bodily catalyst due to unprocessed mental catalyst, and also that which was preprogramed before this incarnation, and that bodily catalyst that comes from an aging body, and if you can process all three of those kinds in the same way.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The catalyst of the body is that which is usually experienced when the mental faculties of the mind/body/spirit complex have not appropriately apprehended the nature of catalyst that has come before it. When this occurs, then there is oftentimes the giving over of the catalyst of the mind to that of the body in some form of physical maladjustment, shall we say, or dis-ease. This is in order that the mental faculties may then have a second opportunity to look upon this catalyst that was first omitted, and see there where there is information to be gained. This type of experience is quite common among most of the population of your planet that suffer the physical ailments that continue to repeat themselves and attempt to bring to light that which has remained in shadows for the mind.

However, as you also have mentioned, there is that catalyst which is simply the product of the physical vehicle’s aging process that shows to the mind/body/spirit complex that there is an ending approaching that will be able to offer to one, the release from the body vehicle, so that there might be a transition into the higher levels of the creation, the spiritual levels where the veil is removed and the purpose of all experience is revealed. That this might occur in the aging process—the ability of the body being lessened in its vitality, in its appearance, and in its overall functioning then—is a reminder, shall we say, to the mind complex that the purpose of the incarnation is to look beyond the nature of the physical experience and see the metaphysical experience revealed as symbolically in one fashion or another.

The type of aging which this partakes in, is that which is of a symbolic nature. The degradation of various portions of the body, then, become reminders that there is a greater purpose for the expression of the body, the mind and the spirit. There is, however, the overall quality of vitality in the body complex which supersedes or goes beyond the normal expression of bodily functions so that one may look at the body that is failing in one fashion or another as being a symbol of the mental process that can make associations between the type of failure of the body complex with other mental or spiritual qualities that might give the mind complex an indication of the next level of experience that it will be moving into in order to fulfill the preincarnative choices that have been made by the entity.

These preincarnative choices, then, become another factor in aiding the mind/body/spirit complex in pursuing the overall plan for the incarnation in order that there might be an enriching of the experience of the third-density illusion that can aid one in moving from this illusion into the fourth density of love and understanding.

Is there another query, my sister?

It seems as though, then, you might experience, when you’re getting older, all three of these types of bodily catalyst. Is there a way to tell how to tell them apart and to know how best to work with them?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. We would recommend, as always, the meditative state as that opportunity to assess the nature of any catalyst or experience that one may feel is prominent at a certain time for the life pattern. In the meditative state, one can access those deeper levels of the conscious mind and the upper levels of the subconscious mind where there are clues and indications of relevancy, shall we say, that can be obtained by meditating upon the catalyst at hand. There is the quality of seeking in the meditative state that is enhanced by one’s desire to know how to serve more effectively, how to open the heart more fully, how to give unconditional love more frequently.

If one can see past the outer parameters of the catalyst in front of one in the meditative state, and have the question within the mind and the heart how to more fully love and serve, then through this lens one may more accurately see the features and resonances that are facing one and offering to one the opportunity to do just that, to love, to serve, to accept, to give, to give praise and thanksgiving for the opportunity to be.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you so much, that was very helpful.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I’ve had an observation that relates to our first inquiry today, that as one polarizes positively and begins to move into fourth density that a sort of energetic wall starts to form between the self and third-density entities and groups wherein one might actually experience physical pain or discomfort when in a highly 3D environment. Could you elaborate on this as it relates to the harvest? I’ve also noticed that in a highly charged 4D environment that the squaring effect that occurs is tremendous and it appears that 4D is present in oneself.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, for many upon your planetary sphere at this time, the open-hearted love of the fourth density of love and understanding is actively functioning. This activity within the heart energy center, is that which will draw one into those areas or arenas within one’s daily round of activities which are in need of this kind of loving acceptance on an unconditional level, so that one who has the open heart may begin to feel the pains of those whose hearts are wishing to open, but have a difficulty in doing so, and seek unconsciously or even consciously to find where there are those who have accomplished this feat, and who may be of service as a teacher upon an unconscious level or a conscious level.

The desire of those entities at this time upon your planet who are nearing their own ability to open their hearts in love and in light to all of the creation is that which is growing greater and greater in numbers and in frequency so that the calling for assistance becomes a great cry that is heard throughout the one infinite creation. Those of the love vibration upon this planetary sphere, then, in both conscious and unconscious ways begin to respond to this cry for assistance by sending love and light to those who call. This is a kind of resonance that is set up when the quality of love within one’s heart begins to grow to an overwhelming nature and desire to serve others about one, so that love does not come just from your heart, but from the universe through your heart to those about you, as you become a beacon, shall we say, of light and love to those who call.

Is there another query, my brother?

Yes, Q’uo, do you have any advice for one calling for spiritual vocation?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Again, we refer you to the tool of meditation, for the meditative state is one in which the desires of one’s being are broadcast like a frequency of assistance of love, of light, of beingness, of desire to reach one’s highest goals, of the ability to realize the incarnative plan. This desire, then, is emanated from each portion of your being, so that the higher self begins to become more and more involved in your daily round of activities, giving you clues and hints, here or there, according to your discernment as to the path that is most appropriate for you to take. Thusly, if you retire to your meditative state and ask for that which is of the highest and best for you, the answer shall be given in some fashion that you can discern in your daily round of activities, if not within the meditative state at the time of the asking.

Is there another query, my brother?

No, that was very helpful, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo. Since there are no other queries, I would simply ask how we may improve the quality of our channeling sessions, and whether or not crystals may be a useful tool in helping facilitate that?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We feel that what has occurred in each of the channeling sessions that we have attempted to speak towards in these last few years has been a growing desire to seek as one body or being those aspects of love, of light, and of unity, that may be offered to each upon a daily basis so that there is, within each, the ability to give and to receive love upon an elevated and continually more elevated state of consciousness.

Thusly, we might recommend for a group such as this one, that there could be some joining in the singing of various inspirational chants or songs or oms that bring the mind, the body and the spirit together in an expressive fashion that is unified by the song, the chant, or the om that is being expressed. This may seem to be a simple suggestion, however, we suggest that for it to be most effective, it would be well if there could be an agreement upon the types of chants, songs, and so forth, that each would feel comfortable in singing with the group. This is a kind of activity which would, of necessity, become regular for each meeting so that when there are new members that are unaware of the songs, they could be able to learn them before arriving, so that each could participate to the fullest.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we would again thank each present for your generous invitation to us once again today. We are most overwhelmed with joy and gratitude at our ability to feel your love and your light as you join in seeking for the ultimate source of love and light within all beings. We join you in that search and walk with you upon that path. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, Adonai vasu borragus.

