(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. We greet each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator of whom we are all a portion, and which we seek with every fiber of our being. We are aware that many in this circle are of the same nature and have the same desire to seek the One, and yet find difficulties in so doing, thus we come to offer ourselves in the resolving of such difficulties, if possible, and yet in such a manner of speaking, we ask you to realize that we are not ultimate sources of information. We have our own distortions with which to deal in a joyful manner, realizing that the resolution of each distortion moves us closer and closer to the One within us all.

So, we would ask, as always, that you take those words and thoughts that we offer you, and use them in whatever way benefits you the most. If any do not benefit you, then please discard them with no second thought. In this way, we are, as always, able to speak more freely to your queries.

May we ask at this time if there is a query with which we may begin?

I’ve got one, Q’uo. Ra had a theory that our Logos designed our evolution based on speech rather than telepathy in order to increase the veil in some way. I was wondering, if this is true, how that works? Why would relying on speech help to accentuate the veil? And if there is any advice that you would give in using this to our advantage in polarizing and opening our hearts.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that this is a most salient query in the process of seeking within the third-density illusion, for the process of reverting to, or depending upon, speech instead of telepathy, or concept communication, is a means by which the veil of forgetting is strengthened. The speech that you so joyfully, and occasionally carelessly, utilize in your third-density experience is a means by which the seeming illusory separation between you and all of the creation, and especially the One Infinite Creator, is enhanced.

Concept communication is a means by which it is much easier for entities, who are able to communicate in this manner, to realize the nature of the illusion, so that the concepts which are telepathy and precognition and so forth, then reinforce the nature of the creation as being one thing. For the concepts partake of the unity of creation in that they reflect some portion of the functioning of unity: the interaction of communication without the division of the thoughts into pieces and particles called words.

Thus, as you are able to realize that the words you speak carry power of description that is lesser than concepts convey, then you realize you must work even more persistently to be able to make yourself clear to clearly transmit the thoughts from your heart, from your mind, and from your very being. As you realize that you are, of necessity, relegated to the use of words, then perhaps you will also add to your attempt at communication a certain fervor that seeks to reveal most clearly what you are thinking and feeling. When this is done in conjunction, or in tandem with another entity with whom you are attempting to resolve difficulties and disharmonies, this is very helpful in that it gives you the means by which to work with more dedication in your attempt at communication.

This working with dedication, then, is likened unto polarizing more efficiently in the positive sense, as you attempt to use your words to become open and transparent to another entity, encouraging the other entity by your own effort, to do the same.

Thus, your communication is hard won, and yet the polarization that is received by such a difficult activity, in comparison to concept communication is also enhanced greatly.

Is there another query, my brother?

No follow-up to that one, thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Greetings, Q’uo. I have a follow-up query. During this time of evolution and moving into fourth density, it appears that telepathy is much more easy and available to those who are polarizing. Can you give us some recommendations as to how to hone that skill?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, as you have observed, the ease with which telepathy is available to some people—those who are conscious seekers of truth—is an indication that at this time it is possible for those who are aware of how they are advancing their own evolutionary progress, may begin to notice the thinning, shall we say, of the veil of forgetting for them, and for others like them, who seek with the same purity and intensity. Thus, the quality that is most helpful in being able to transmit and receive thoughts from another being is that this activity be accomplished with another entity that shares your sincerity and depth of devotion to seeking the spiritual evolution of mind, body, and spirit.

Thus, in such a tandem effort, there is the possibility of using the meditative state to transmit thoughts to the other entity who is aware that such thoughts are being attempted as communication. The other entity does not have to be in close proximity to you, but needs to be aware that you are attempting to send this entity your images and concepts so that there may be a receptivity on the part of the other entity that is developed by this knowledge.

The meditative state aids in such production and reception of telepathic concepts as it is able to take you deeper and deeper into your conscious mind, and even into your subconscious mind where such communication is more, shall we say, common and possible in regards or in the relation to the higher levels of the conscious mind, which is the busy mind, the monkey mind, as it is called.

If you can quiet this mind, this conscious mind, or busy mind, within the meditative state, then you may begin to experience greater and greater feelings of expansiveness so that your being begins to move outward in what you would call the time/space, or spiritual realms, and begins to encompass the other entity, or entities with whom you wish to communicate. If you can visualize this expansion of your being, being able to encompass the other entity and then transmit your thoughts in this state of being, there is a greater likelihood of the reception by the one to whom they are sent.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a follow-up query to these questions, Q’uo. It has to do with communication with other living souls, their spirit, or the spirit of the departed ones, or also with higher self, and I would like specifically to ask about the role of asking assistance from higher self in communicating with those other living or departed friends, or just with higher self directly, for guidance for that communication of sending questions and receiving answers that would be helpful.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The asking for assistance from those greater portions of the self that you may liken unto the higher self, or the mind/body/spirit complex totality, is the same as the student asking the teacher for help with a certain problem, be it math, grammar, spelling, or so forth. This asking for assistance, then, is felt by the soul level of the one who asks, so that at this level of being, the assistance that is provided by the higher self is able to be perceived more clearly than the conscious mind is capable of perceiving.

Thusly, once again, if you are able, within your conscious mind, to use a meditative procedure in which you view yourself as moving into those levels of the unconscious mind to ask for assistance from the higher self, then there is the greater likelihood that this assistance will be clearly perceived in your subconscious mind. If, however, the conscious mind is that level at which one finds oneself in this attempt to communicate with the higher self, being unable to delve deeper into the subconscious mind, then we also recommend the meditative state so that the lowest level of the conscious mind might be presented to the higher self for the reception of the words and thoughts that may be of assistance in communicating with whatever entity you wish to communicate.

The entities that you are seeking to establish communication with are upon a level of being that is spiritual in nature so that they are aware of your attempt to communicate much more likely than they would be if you were not utilizing the meditative state. The meditative state is one which permeates the entire creation much more readily than the conscious sending of thoughts through words or concepts. The unconscious mind, combined with the meditative state, is the most effective combination of those qualities of the self that may then set up a communication that is enhanced by the higher self, and makes available this communication to the one with whom the communication is asked for.

Is there another query, my sister?

A follow-up to that. Yes, the meditative state is what I was referring to, even though I didn’t state it, that it seems to me possible to contact higher self and others while in that deeper state, and it is not so much an exercise of sending, but one of reaching out, and then also receiving, with the help of higher self. So, my follow-up question would be: I have found, when doing this with a sincere desire for positive or helpful communication, that I have always found that in the oneness of consciousness, other spirits or souls have been always open to communicating, and I wondered if you would comment upon that. It seems to me a reflection of the eternal oneness of all, and that where all doors are open, and I just find it extraordinary and very reassuring, but I would wish to hear your comment upon that.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The entities with whom you wish to communicate upon the spiritual level of being have no veil of forgetting to block their view of, or reception of, communications from you. They are aware that the purpose of this third-density illusion is to be of service to others, however it may be perceived by the conscious seeker of truth.

Thus, you offer to such entities in your attempt to communicate with them a chance to move in clarity through their communications, enhancing their service, so that at their level of being, they are also increasing their polarity as they are attempting to communicate through you to another loved one or friend, shall we say.

You are offering such entities a clear and purified means of being of service, a crystal opportunity in which they are full of joy to be able to participate, for in most instances, they are unable to make themselves clearly understood to any such entities without an intermediary, such as yourself, who may call upon another intermediary, such as the higher self, and establish a communication that allows them this signal opportunity to be of service, not only to another entity, but to a loved one.

This is a source of great joy for such entities, and this joyful feeling is that which imbues the entire process, so that the one who has requested the communication and your assistance is able to open its heart in a manner in which the reception of such words will be enhanced to go beyond the words into the feelings and the images that accompany such heart-felt communication.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Thank you, Q’uo. Only one further question relating to this entire discussion. Will many of us be moving toward more communication such as this on the higher level as we move more and more towards fourth density, and in such way the veil of forgetting is being thinned in this way. With more openness and connection there is more knowing. Is that a correct assumption?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. In general, we would agree that you have correctly summarized the situation. The veil of forgetting, in general, as we have mentioned, is beginning to become less and less thick, less and less able to restrict the vision of those who consciously seek to penetrate this veil, for one reason or another.

Many spiritual seekers have, within their hearts and souls, the greatest of desires to move into unity with all entities about them, and with the One Infinite Creator within all that there is. This great desire, then, is that which can utilize the thinning of this veil to further thin it for this particular type of entity. It is the spiritual determination and perseverance that are the qualities that move the seeker of truth beyond the veil to see, for the first time, the vision of unity that awaits all on the other side of the veil of forgetting.

Is there another query, my sister?

No, thank you, Q’uo. That was very helpful.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

We have one from Brad, Q’uo, who starts with Latwii from 1982. Latwii said: “When an entity passes from that which you call the incarnation, and goes through that door known as death, there is a certain period in which the entity is somewhat, shall we say, disoriented, and that it is aware that its consciousness has continued but its environment has greatly changed. The time spent in the condition of confusion is entirely dependent upon the entity’s grasp of this process and its desire to seek a clearer understanding of its function.” Brad goes on to ask: “How does one improve our grasp of this process and have a clear understanding of this process of passing through the door of death so that disorientation is minimized, the process is fearless and peaceful. How can we seek a clear understanding of the process of passing through the door of death?”

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother. The door of death, as it has been referred to, is, for some, a fearsome possibility; for others a welcomed opportunity. It is well for any entity who wishes to consider the nature of its own potential moving through this door to see such as the greatest of liberations to drop one’s own veil within the conscious mind that separates its from the unconscious mind.

In the meditative state is a means by which preparation for this ultimate journey of liberation may be undertaken, for there is, within the ability of each seeker of truth, the chance to visualize this process as one in which the light of this illusion, as bright as it may seem to every entity within it, becomes dimmer in comparison to the great light that one will walk into as one moves through the door of death. This light may be seen in the meditative state as being that light likened unto the sun in which life-giving energies are propelled continuously towards the one moving through death’s door.

This light, then, gauges one’s ability to utilize and move further into this light, as the light is moved into, then, the visualization may be seen to increase the vision of the one moving through death’s door, to see those entities that are awaiting one as one moves through that door, for each entity within the third-density illusion has friends, guides, teachers, and loved ones that will be waiting for it to help it penetrate what is called “etherea”. They will give their guidance, their light, their love, and their understanding to the entity while it is attempting to perceive them, and to perceive the nature of the reality into which it has moved.

This ethereal reality, then, can be penetrated by the entity who has the strong desire within its heart, within its mind, within its soul, to move through the ethereal realm so that the realm of true being and true living is entered, and those entities who await the one moving through death’s door are apparent to the entity and greet it as a long lost friend and family member come home.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No follow-up to that, thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

We have another one from Lanny that is in two parts—I will ask the first part first. “Q’uo, I would like to ask a question about eating meat. What are the spiritual principles and possibilities of polarization as one attempts to eliminate the use of animal products from their diet? When the reality of the situation is looked at, we have one set of beings expressing its dominance over another set of beings and from what I can tell are infringing on the free will of these beings as they live a life in which they are caged and grown just to be killed for meat.

When we have the opportunity/option to be a steward of this planet and treat every being with respect and dignity, can you help enlighten me on this? Do second-density beings incarnate in the understanding that they will live this kind of life and therefore, we are not infringing on their free will? Or does each person make their choice, if they are even aware, as to whether they will take part in this?

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother. This is a query which moves to the level of understanding that all is One. The animals, as you call them, of the second-density variety, which are utilized by many on the surface of your third-density planet for food, are beings that have consciousness, that have a soul, that have the ability to give and to receive love. These entities, then, can be utilized by those of the third density in any way that third-density entities choose. This choosing is done in a conscious manner when the second-density entity that is to be consumed as a food, is asked before its slaughter, shall we say, if this is acceptable to such entity.

This is a situation in which many of the native tribes, shall we say, of your earthly sphere have long engaged in the utilizing of the second-density animals for their food. However, we find that it is seldom utilized in your third-density at this time, and it is more likely to be taken for granted that such second-density entities have been grown for this purpose, and would consider it a part of their life experience to give their lives and their bodies for food. However, this cannot be known for certain until there has been a communication established between the third-density entity and the second-density entity that is seen as a potential source of food.

Therefore, we find that for most entities within the third density who consume the meat products without such an establishment of communication beforehand, are in some way infringing upon the free will of the second-density entities. However, we would remind each third-density being that it is quite frequently accomplished, shall we say, that the infringement upon the free will of others is put forth or done in many and various ways on a daily basis, so that there is the need for each third-density entity to balance the catalyst of such infringement upon the free will of other entities, be they second or third-density entities.

Thus, it is not just in the consumption of the foodstuffs of second density that such infringement takes place. We would remind each third-density entity that the second-density foodstuffs in the form of plants also have a type of consciousness that is more likely to be able to blend in a harmonious fashion with the desire of third-density entities to see them as foodstuffs. This, however, is also enhanced when the third-density entity is able to see all food, be it animal or vegetable, as that which is conscious, that which contains the One Infinite Creator, and that which with a communication needs to be established in some manner, whether it is the saying of a blessing of the food or the asking of the food if it is acceptable to be utilized as food before it is so utilized.

We realize that most third-density entities are unable or unwilling or unaware of such a necessity, and move through their daily round of activities with a blindness to this possibility and necessity, as there is blindness to many ways of realizing the spiritual nature of the journey each seeker is upon. This journey of seeking is one which encompasses the entire reality of third-density so that all may be seen eventually as the One Infinite Creator and may be communicated with upon that level, so that for whatever reason, the portion of the One Creator that you are communicating with is to be used, that there will be a means by which the acceptance of this use by that portion of the Creator is achieved.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Yes, he goes on: “If it’s not too much to ask, I would also like to better understand the spiritual principles involved with attempting to educate others about the injustices of animal agriculture while respecting their free will, since we seem to have a paradox of respecting the free will of the animals, assumed wanting to not be killed, and the free will of a person’s supposed right to eat meat.”

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The principle of the utilization of animal creatures, shall we say, for producing food, is a kind of disregarding of personal rights, as you may say. To attempt to share this kind of information with others that may not be aware of such, or may not agree with such, is the free will right of any entity seeking to do so. This is in conjunction with any attempt to be of service to others in the manner which attempts to expand or deepen other entities’ realization or consciousness of the topic of the use of animals for food, or whatever other topic is desired to be projected to others by one wishing to, shall we say, proselytize.

It is an action well done when it is realized that the offering of one’s opinion on any topic to another is that which needs to be done without a dedication to an outcome that would drive one to push further than the one listening wishes to hear.

Thus, the free will of all must be respected by any conscious seeker of truth. To infringe upon the free will of those who unconsciously use animals for food, is again, an infringement of another kind.

Is there another query at this time?

We have one more from Justin, who writes: “Why do people have what’s called ‘Asperger’s’ and ‘autism’? I was diagnosed with Asperger’s when I was fourteen and have found it to be a constant hindrance for personal growth. Though I have deep empathy and compassion, and have come a long way, it is probably the only part of myself that I haven’t fully accepted. I know that in and of itself, it is my greatest challenge yet.”

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother. We find the word “challenge” is most significant in this query. The challenges of the third-density illusion are those which provide opportunities for people who are described as conscious seekers of truth to utilize in a manner which expands one’s awareness, opens the heart and allows the One Infinite Creator’s love to flow freely forth by the meeting of the challenge.

The challenge of those diseases, as they are called, Asperger’s and autism, are to be able to put forth another way of being, another way of seeing, another way of communicating—for entities with these conditions have another way of being. They are here to not only expand their own consciousness as they move into the fourth-density of love and understanding, but to offer to those about them the opportunity to see another way of being, another way of communicating, another way of accomplishing the life’s journey. For this type of seeing is that which moves beyond the normal third-density level of perception, and recognition and acceptance.

There is far, far more to the third-density experience of each entity within the third density than is realized by most entities residing therein. Those entities with what is called the Asperger’s Syndrome, or autism, have a connection to the One Creator that is unlike the normal type of connection that most entities experience. Their connection is one that is more refined in some ways, in that there is an unconscious transmission of unity to the conscious mind, so that those entities so demonstrating these conditions may share this increased level of beingness with others about them. In order to do so, there is the challenge of accepting the self as being other than most other entities about one.

The peer pressure of the third-density illusion is most great and it is difficult for entities with differences such as these entities have and exhibit, to move beyond this peer pressure, but once this is done, and once they can see that they shine like the sun—in many ways more effectively, more poignantly, and more clearly, than most third-density entities—then these conditions can become means by which most other third-density entities can expand their own awareness, not only of what is possible for others, but of what is possible for the self as it attempts to move further and further along, or closer and closer in tune with the One Infinite Creator within, within the self, within all other selves, and within the creation as a whole. This type of movement is that which each entity on planet earth is here to share with others.

There are no two entities that are the same. All entities have the One Infinite Creator inside of them within their being, and this type of experience of the One Infinite Creator in whatever degree it is experienced and shared with others, is that which is of the greatest value to all about one so able to share.

We commend the efforts of this entity in its attempt to accept itself and would like to share our thoughts that we accept this entity totally as the One Infinite Creator. We see the One in this one and in all, and we thank each for allowing us to speak this afternoon upon the topics that you have given us.

At this time, we shall ask if there is a final query.

I have a final query, Q’uo, regarding people on the autism spectrum. Are they a part of the discrete starseed soul group?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother, and you are most perceptive, for indeed, these entities, who exhibit the qualities of autism most especially, and that called Asperger’s Syndrome, as well, have found the ability to move into the fourth-density of love and understanding upon other planetary spheres, and have come here in order to aid the birthing of this planet’s fourth-density experience of love and understanding. They are from a distant planet which has already achieved its transition into the fourth density of love and understanding, and the population of this planet has provided a small group of those able to make this transition and they are here now to aid the transition of this planet into the fourth density.

At this time, we shall again thank each for inviting our presence this afternoon. We are most grateful to have been able to share our thoughts and our being with you. We feel your love and thoughts and being shared in return with us. It is a blending of energies that is most joyous. We thank you for your love, for your understanding, for your desire to seek the One Infinite Creator in all. We join you in that seeking. Together we shall help to bring each other home. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

