(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument at this time. We greet you in love and in light, for that is all that there is, and each of you and we are part of that unity. We are honored, as always, to be asked to join your circle of seeking. We are valiant warriors seeking to be of service to all and seeking to grow into the allness of your being, the One Infinite Creator. We would begin, as usual, by asking that small favor: that is, that you would recognize that we are not ultimate authorities, we are your brothers and your sisters who travel the same path as do you. In the words we share are those that we feel are most appropriate, but we would ask that you take those words and concepts and do with them as you will, use them as you will, disregard any that are not helpful to you at this time. In this way, we may feel free to speak to you without being concerned that we should become a stumbling block to you in any way whatsoever. If you would grant us that favor, we are most grateful.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Is my understanding that any act of will is ultimately the Creator’s will. There is only one being, there is only one will, there is no way to be outside of that will, but for the entity who wishes to undistortedly embody that will, or to become a transparent vessel for the Creator’s will, does intending to do so have any effect? Does it purify the heart or accelerate the journey in any way?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. You have asked a query which is close to this instrument’s heart, and we are hopeful that we can shed some light upon the query that may aid each entity in this endeavor to do the will of the One.

As you have spoken truly, there is no other will than the will of the One, for there is no other entity than the One that exists in each entity. However, within the illusion of the creation in which you live and move and have your being, there is the seeming separation of various portions of the One Infinite Creator into those sub-sets, shall we say, that comprise various densities of entities in more or less understanding of their quality as the One Creator. These densities of creation exist so that the Creator may have more ways to know itself more purely, more intensely, and with greater variety, so that the entire creation of lifeforms has the joyous goal of providing to the Creator many, many different ways of its being able to know itself through each choice in each incarnation, in each density, infinitely. Thus, each serves the one by simply doing the nature or being the nature of the self that seems separate.

Each self has a variety of preincarnative choices that are made in order to accelerate the spiritual path in each incarnation. These choices are carried out through the exercise of free will. These choices are demonstrated in a certain manner by certain entities within the various densities. Each of these choices, being a product of free will, carries the opportunity for the seeker of truth to be able to manifest more and more clearly the nature of the One Infinite Creator, being that of unity, so that each successful lesson that is preincarnatively chosen and incarnatively completed then expands the ability of the seeker of truth to express more and more of the will of the One in the individual life experience.

Thus, though there is nothing but the will of the One Infinite Creator, there is an expanding perception of that will by each seeker of truth’s ability to carry out those pre-incarnatively chosen lessons that are seen to be helpful in expanding the view into the larger and larger view of the creation, of the self, and of the One Infinite Creator and of all other selves, as being one. This is a process that takes what you would call the distortion of time in the illusion of densities of experience. However, in each case, for each entity, this is the road to the doing of that will, which is the will of the One which exists within all.

Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, could you comment on the process of self-emptying and becoming without will, to be the perfect instrument of some greater intelligence that we call God, or Father, or Mother?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The process of which you speak, that which is involved in the emptying of one’s being of distortions or thoughts or desires or experiences, is a process which is an advance process of the adept. Each entity is the Creator in miniature. Each entity seeks this knowing of its own being in one fashion or another, depending upon its level of progress in realization, that it contains the universe. To contain all is another way of saying to be empty of things of the mundane world, for these things are those materialized objects that are part of your third-density illusion. They give you the opportunity to move beyond the illusion of separation and to see that the qualities which are utilized within the third-density illusion are steppingstones to this point of emptiness of which you speak.

Thus, the conscious seeker of truth can utilize the steppingstones for a certain portion of this journey of seeking of the One within. At some point, this journey will have utilized the mundane world to its completion for that entity. The mundane world, then, being seen as a tool that has been well used, and now must be set aside in order that greater progress may be made by the conscious seeker of truth as it begins to see the self as an expanding expression of the One Infinite Creator. This is a process which is ongoing for many adepts at this time.

In order to facilitate this process, it is helpful that the conscious seeker of truth then, in a conscious fashion, in the meditative state, begin to empty the self of those qualities that are observed to still be in the process of expressing their natures within the being of the adept. These processes or qualities are a means by which there is spiritual food given to the seeker of truth, and then the seeker of truth grows from this food of the material world into a realm that may be seen as being infinite in nature, and spiritual in its essence, so that there is no mental or physical expressions that are any longer exercised or utilized. The seeker of truth, then, begins to become more and more that which it has been since before time, that is, the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I have an additional query. It appears that when a crystalized being is in a group context with other entities, that that being can distill the energy of the collective, and become an instrument of the collective consciousness of the group. Could you comment on this process in which the crystalized being becomes the head, and the group, the body?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The crystalized being, or the master of experience, is the one who has made contact with intelligent infinity, and has, by this contact, been able to transmit those spiritual qualities which transcend all time, space, and materiality. As the information, the impartation, begins to be transmitted to those about this master, or crystalized being, then these entities begin to receive these impartations on the level of the spirit—not the level of the intellect, not the level of the material world, but the level of the spirit. This is the spiritual journey. This is the means by which all such masters have gathered about themselves, those entities who seek to reproduce what the master has achieved.

It is said that when the student is ready, the teacher will appear. The crystalized being, then, is that teacher which draws unto him or herself, the seekers of truth who, within their own being, are aware that this teacher, or crystalized being, can give unto them, that which they seek, and that is, to be filled with the impartations of the One Infinite Creator so that they may understand, if you will, how their very beings are filled with this One Creator. Indeed, then, the master, or crystalized being, becomes the head or the teacher for the body of beings that are the followers, the disciples, shall we say. This has been the pattern through time immemorial of the mystical seeking of the One by the many that is aided by those who have achieved that type of consciousness of oneness with infinity.

Is there another query, my brother?

Yes, Q’uo. I have also heard the saying that when the master is ready, the students shall appear. Could you comment on that slight variation?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. This variation, or reflection, of the previous statement of when the student is ready, the master will appear, is simply the obverse, or statement of the situation from the point of view of the master, for the master, oftentimes is that which has been so successful at achieving unity with the One, that there is no separation for it, or division for it, as it experiences that unity in the very being of its soul. Thus, the master sits, shall we say, symbolically, under the bodhi tree, and awaits those students that are drawn to it through their synchronistic vibratory experiences that have led them to the master. Thusly, there is a conjunction of energies and efforts of seeking and serving the One who is in All.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we again thank you, my brother.

Is there another query at this time?

Ra says: “The blue ray center of energy streaming is the center which, for the first time, is outgoing as well as inpouring. Those blocked in this area may have difficulty in grasping the spirit/mind complexes of its own entity, and further difficulty in expressing such understandings of self. Entities blocked in this area may have difficulties in accepting communication from other mind/body/spirit complexes.” 1

In my own experience, I have reactions of irritation, or annoyance, say, in response to others at times, and it has no connection to anything. They are causing me no offense or difficulty, it’s just an inner resistance to their communication. Is this an example of blocked blue ray, and if so, how can one unblock this?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. In order to unblock the blue ray, which has the opportunity to share the love and light of the One Creator fully and freely with those about one, it is oftentimes helpful, when some blockage of this blue ray occurs, to look at the other self that has caused the difficulty or irritation, as the self. Thusly, one looks into a mirror and sees a portion of the self which is yet unbalanced within the self, and act upon the irritation as if it had been created by the self, for the self, and for the movement along the spiritual path by the balancing or resolving of the irritation through contemplation and meditation.

These tools, then, can show the one who feels the irritation, the sense of the portion of the self which has become irritated and the portion of the self which has created the irritation. When it can be seen that these two selves are one, then there can become, within the self, a healing, or a balancing, of the irritation, so that it becomes, instead of an irritation, an invitation to move further along the acceptance of the self that is so necessary in order for the blue ray to shine most brilliantly within the conscious seeker of truth.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Yeah, a follow-up. When one is of a service-to-others oriented nature, or attempting to be so, one is trying to meet the needs of others, but there are times when others, in their communication, have unarticulated expectation in their sharing. They are looking to you for something—validation, or energy, or just simply your attention. How does one balance between desiring to fulfill the needs of others and not letting the resources of self be depleted?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would recommend, once again, in contemplation and in meditation, the one who feels the irritation of others that seems to be depleting of the energies of the self, look at what level its own being it wishes to participate within. There are various levels of each entity’s being that may be observed in the daily round of activities. The daily round of activities, oftentimes is the primary focus of most of the entities within your third density illusion. This daily round of activities may partake of the mundane level only, or may be of a spiritual quality that causes the mundane level to be, shall we say, seen as more sedentary to the priorities of the conscious seeker of truth.

The level of the spiritual that sees all as the Creator in one form or another then, may be called upon in the meditative state to give inspiration and guidance to the self in dealing with other selves who seem to be draining the energies of the self in the mundane activities of the everyday experience. These qualities of irritation and draining of personal energies, then, may be seen, as to be expressed by another portion of the One Infinite Creator, who has needs of an unspoken, perhaps undiscovered nature that may require a good deal of energy and time upon any entity with whom this entity is interacting.

Thus, it is the conscious choice of any spiritual seeker of truth, then, to determine at which level of experience it wishes to engage those entities which may be somewhat irritating or draining to it, as it is attempting to do its work, shall we say, within the daily round of activities. It is oftentimes a great need or felt responsibility to continue with the mundane level of experience, for this is what is the, shall we say, purpose, or job, or task, of the seeker who is so infringed upon, apparently by other entities who seem to be difficult to deal with. It is a choice that can be made, one way or the other, to determine which is more important in the moment—to rise above the mundane and attempt to do that which may be impossible, to do that which may be extremely difficult or unnecessary, or taxing of the energies of the self, or to in some way, put aside the entity that is irritating, so that it is, shall we say, given a bite of bread for the moment, rather than the spiritual truth for the lifetime. We do not suggest that one way or another is better than the other. We suggest that there are levels of seeing that catalyst that comes before one that can require more of one, for any catalyst can be used at any level of energy expenditure throughout the red through the violet rays, so that at any time, you may partake at higher and higher levels of experience that would, shall we say, take you away from the lower levels for the time being, as you move higher into the vibratory levels of your own being to aid the difficulty that another being is having within your presence.

Is there another query, my brother?

Not from me, thank you so much, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a query, Q’uo. In a sense we are beginning a new year today, as it is the solstice and we’re seeing the turning of the sun. I wondered if you had any guidance for us going into 2020 about how we might best utilize this new opportunity for renewal and evolution.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. There are infinite opportunities for transmuting the consciousness of the self into that which expands to the broader view. Some take the opportunity of the changing of the year, the changing of the seasons, the changing of the day, the changing of the hour, the changing of the moment. It is a grand choice that each may make to take whatever opportunity is presented to the self to determine that the infinite love and light of the One Infinite Creator that exists within the self, may be given an opportunity to shine ever more brightly to those entities with whom one comes in contact in its daily round of activities.

This can be done by a simple act of will and faith that one says to the self, “We shall now move forward in this love, in this light, in this moment, to shine ever more brightly, ever more clearly, and ever more constantly to each entity we meet upon the street of life”, for each entity is the One Creator, is the other self, is the entire creation standing before you, with needs, with services, with difficulties, with desires to seek ever more fully that which you have in abundance. Once again, we suggest that as you meet these entities, there is no mistake in your meeting them. They come to you as they are drawn to you by that light which shines within you and from within you, to all about you. This light is as a beacon that draws those who are weary, those who are hungry, those who are seeking the One, and have difficulty in finding even their way in the darkness of their own situations in the life experience.

Thusly, you draw to you those who are seeking what you have in abundance. You, then, may, in some fashion, perhaps with words, perhaps with deeds, perhaps with your simple being, shine unto them that which is yours to give, letting the One Infinite Creator move without difficulty or obstruction from the heart of your being to the heart of all who seek from you that glorious light that is within you.

Is there another query at this time?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and again, we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?

Q’uo, Ra is talking about how our society sees the body as a machine, they say: “In observing the allopathic concept of the body complex as the machine, we may note the symptomology of a societal complex seemingly dedicated to the most intransigent desire for the distortions of distraction, anonymity and sleep. This is the result, rather than the cause, of societal thinking upon your plane.

In turn, this mechanical concept of the body complex has created the continuing proliferation of distortions toward what you would call ill health due to the strong chemicals used to control and hide bodily distortions. There is a realization among many of your peoples that there are more efficacious systems of healing, not excluding the allopathic, but also including the many other avenues of healing.“ 2

If seeing the body as a machine is the distortion which results in our use of pharmaceuticals to manage the body and its symptoms, what would be the less distorted way of seeing the body complex?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The body complex is that creature which allows the mind and the spirit to move about within your third-density illusion. Oftentimes, as this movement within the illusion continues, there are difficulties for the mind/body/spirit complex in the form of catalyst which is not properly processed so that the lessons that might be gleaned from such processing of catalyst might be achieved. When this occurs, this difficulty of the mind to perceive that catalyst before it, when this exists long enough, there is oftentimes the transmission of this catalyst to the body, for the body is quite literally the creation of the mind. The catalyst, then, when it is received by the body and expressed by the body as some form of what you would call dis-ease, then it is hoped that the mind will begin to perceive that which is symbolically represented within the body as a dis-ease or a difficulty which the mind may then work with as clearly perceived catalyst to relieve the body of its symbolic dis-ease and allow the mind to achieve growth in the spiritual sense.

However, many entities, as you have described quite eloquently, have chosen not to realize that their bodies are creatures of the mind, that there is a connection between mind and body that allows a communication to exist that will give to the mind healing that it seeks. Most entities within your third-density illusion have no concept of this relationship, and feel that the allopathic means of curing bodily dis-eases is the means by which such shall be achieved. And oftentimes there are some symptoms that are relieved in some degree, and some type of healing that occurs that is allowed, shall we say, by higher levels of the self, the higher self, or the mind/body/spirit complex totality. If these higher forms of the self feel that there has been an appreciation by the mind in some degree of the lessons that are symbolically represented by the body which has now been treated by the various chemical pharmaceuticals that allopathic medicine offers, this is why, in some case, there seems to be a healing that is achieved.

But we would suggest it is a healing that is achieved in spite of the allopathic procedures, so that what has occurred, is a, shall we say, movement around, or work around, the seeing of the body as a machine, so that various levels of healing may occur. However, we would suggest that these levels of healing that occur are not the ultimate healing that is possible when the mind realizes that the body is reflecting to it unprocessed catalyst.

There are, however, means by which the allopathic medical procedures can have an effect, and this, shall we say, watered down effect is that which allows the allopathic procedures to continue as a form of medical assessment of difficulties and the treatment thereof. If the mind, then, can continue in some fashion to realize either consciously, or subconsciously, the symbolic representation that is being treated, either allopathically, or spiritually, then there can be, in both cases, a certain level of disease that is relieved by each means of treatment. The allopathic becoming somewhat efficient in its treatment, the spiritual can become then completely successful in its treatment. It is a choice of the entity which seeks the healing, and at whatever level this entity seeks that healing, be it conscious or subconscious, the ruling level of choosing, however, being the subconscious level that can respond to either the spiritual treatment or the allopathic treatment.

At this time, we shall thank each in the circle of seeking for inviting our presence once again and take our leave of this instrument, who is becoming somewhat fatigued. We thank each of you, as always, for inviting our presence. You are our brothers and sisters of the open heart in this circle at this time, and we thank you for the love that you share so abundantly with us. We hope you are aware that we return it in kind to you. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.

Mentioned in #15.12 ↩

Mentioned in #64.15 ↩

