(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument and this group, and we come to you in love and in light. We are honored, as always, to be able to join you at your request, and to offer those words of love, of inspiration, of assurance and consolation, that may aid you on your journey of seeking. We know the path you tread is difficult, and that gatherings such as this are most helpful in discovering and in sharing with those of like mind and heart the path that you have tread this week, this day, and into what you call your future.

We would ask, as always, that you do us the favor of taking whatever words and thoughts we may share with you today, and use them as feels right for you, leaving behind any that do not feel appropriate for you at this time. If you will do us this favor, we shall feel free to speak as we will, without fear of putting any blockage upon your path.

So, at this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Q’uo, do those of the Confederation sometimes use words or concepts that are perhaps less spiritually evolved from your point of view to accommodate our cultural expectations and beliefs, or perhaps due to the Law of Confusion?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. When we respond to queries such as yours, or any query at all, we attempt to find the word and the concepts which are most appropriate for the moment and for the query and for the group that is gathered in seeking of the One. There is much, therefore, which we attempt to make allowances for, shall we say, for there are words that are most appropriate for every circumstance and every concept. There are words which may be somewhat abstruse or difficult to understand, that may, for another group or entity be more enlightening.

However, in general, we find that your language has a wide enough variety of words and concepts to meet our needs in the great majority of cases. Therefore, we have very little difficulty in selecting the appropriate words, for each of those within a group such as this has enough experience in the seeking process that there are many potential concepts and words that will suffice for any query. Thus, it is not that we seek to utilize words which are less spiritual, but that we seek to utilize words that are more informative for each question and questioner.

Is there another query, my sister?

I guess part of what I’m getting at is I’m wondering if you are sometimes having to come down to our level to address our questions. Does that make sense?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. We would not put it exactly in that fashion, for we do not feel that speaking of the concepts of love, which is the concept each of you is most usually engaged in sharing, and seeking more information for, rather than speaking of wisdom or of unity or of foreverness, for each of these concepts is a critical portion of every seeker’s journey. 1 There is no seeker of truth in any density of experience that would feel that describing consciousness, self-consciousness, universal love, and so forth, was a coming down, or a simplification of explanation of how such a word or concept is a fundamental portion of the infinite creation, the Infinite Creator, and each seeker on the path to unity with the One Creator.

So, we speak as we are able, to give illumination of the highest order to whatever word or concept we are asked to comment upon.

Is there another query, my sister?

No, thank you, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, are coincidences, the many coincidences that I’ve been observing in my life recently, is there any way that you could illuminate if this is an indication … I’d like to confirm my belief that this means that I’m on the right path. Would you be able to illuminate that for me, please?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Any coincidence that you may observe as you are moving through your daily round of activities and considering the nature of your journey, the purpose of your journey, the destination of your journey, how to discover the fullness of your journey, is a means by which your subconscious mind is giving you an indication of the correctness of your thoughts, of your actions, of your direction.

These coincidences are a means by which your conscious mind may be congratulated, shall we say, given an indication that the path you travel is that path that is most appropriate for you at this time, that you may not fully understand the implications of how this journey you are upon is the journey for you is that which shall be revealed to you through more coincidences and illuminations as you continue doing that which you are doing; and that which you are doing is seeking the truth as it may be known to you most clearly in every facet of your life experience. You are, at each moment that you are wondering about what is the path for you, finding another step on that path. Though you may not understand it at the time, it is that which is appropriate for you.

You must realize, my sister, that the journey that you are upon you have been upon for a great portion of what you call time, in many incarnations previous to this one, and as you continue moving upon this path, there will be more and more indications of how this path opens opportunities for you to learn and to serve the One who is in all. You will continue to find various indications, synchronicities and coincidences that will make a, shall we say, trail of breadcrumbs, as it were, so that you may find each step of your journey revealed each day you live, each day you seek, is each day you shall find more and more of that journey opening up before you so that you are more able to consciously participate in that journey.

Each journey begins with the subconscious mind showing you some kind of indication that a certain opportunity may be taken, a certain book may be read, a certain conversation may be had, a certain coincidence may be noticed. Keep awake, my sister, open your mind and your heart and your soul and they shall be filled with the purpose of your life.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you. That was wonderful.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, Ra says: “In your space/time, you and your peoples are the parents of that which is in the womb. The Earth, as you call it, is ready to be born and the delivery is not going smoothly.” My first quick question about that quote—who are the parents in our illusion? Is that everybody on the planet? Is that those who are harvestable on a positive path? Or is there another category?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Each conscious seeker of truth who is attempting to open the heart in unconditional love, and therefore become what you would call harvestable, is potentially a parent of that which is being born at this time upon and within your planet, and within the heart of each seeker of truth. The fourth-density vibrations have been engulfing your planet for some period of time—that which you would call years, shall we say, so that this kind of illumination for the planetary entity and its population is that which feeds the soul of each conscious seeker of truth. [Indeed this] feeds the soul of the planet itself as it begins to interact with those conscious souls who are aware that there is a transition, both for themselves as entities, for the population as a group, and for the planet as an entity itself.

Therefore, there is much of a unified experience that is ongoing at this time. The planetary entity of the fourth density is this babe in the manger of the mind, body, and spirits that seek the fourth-density experience of love and understanding. This interaction between the fourth-density planetary sphere and the new fourth-density population that shall inhabit that sphere is as the parent to child, shall we say, in both directions […] being inspirationally electrified so that there is much more energy available to the experience of growing, of seeking, of utilizing the love and the light of the One Creator. This growing and seeking is shared by the planetary entity being born, and the population of the fourth density that will inhabit this fourth-density planet.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Thank you, yes. In the case of a mother delivering a child, and the delivery is not going smoothly, the experience can be excruciating for the mother, maybe even life threatening—great stress, great duress. As this planet’s fourth-density delivery is not going smoothly, and as those with open hearts of a harvestable nature are the parents, does the situation translate to us? That is, does it create a great strain upon those delivering this new planet into existence?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The difficulty with the delivery of the new fourth-density planet and its population comes not from either the planet or the fourth-density potential population, but from those entities that are engaged in disharmonious and bellicosity of one nature or another, creations of disharmony, disease, confusion, and agitation. There is much division between the various cultures, entities within cultures, and entities within families, that there is the possibility of further enhancement of this disharmonious relationship, so that the warring factions of one group pitted against another could potentially cause difficulties of not only the mental, psychic, and physical nature, but of the potential for planetary catastrophes that are well-documented within the history of your planetary experience. For there have been thousands of years of the warring efforts of many peoples that has embedded the anger of separation within the crust of the planet, so that there is the need at this time to release this heat of anger in a controlled fashion, so that there is necessarily a finite amount of heat that is released at any one time, thus reducing the possibility of planetary annihilation.

There is much of difficulty at this time, as you are aware, in the various divisions that exist within the cultures of your planet, so that this birth is occurring in an environment of great angst and hostility that must needs be dealt with in one fashion or another by those entities that are experiencing such disharmony.

It is hoped that [through] the efforts of your adepts, of your wanderers, and of those Confederation entities that send love and light to your planetary sphere, that these efforts at reducing the disharmony may indeed do so, and allow the birth of this planet to occur along with its population in a less difficult situation, shall we say.

Is there another query, my brother?

Yes, one more, and then I’ll release the mic back to the circle to see if somebody else has questions. This is a personal one, and I wonder if it connects to fourth density. I’ve had this phenomena happen in meditation. Every now and then without rhyme or reason I feel my energy body expand. There is a sense of heaviness and denseness, like I’m wearing a big lead suit, and it interpenetrates my physical body. It’s just this sensation, there’s no further meaning to it or narrative behind it, it’s just a sensation of dense energy that has a heavy quality, almost like it has a mass to it. Can you speak to whether I am sensing the fourth-density electrical field, or if there’s some other explanation?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that there are some aspects of your experience that we may address, and others that we may not. We would suggest that as you are in your meditative state and experiencing the expansive qualities of your own energy body moving in a greater and greater range of frequencies that are in excess of the normal range for yourself, that there is the, shall we say, interconnection between your energy body, and the vibratory patterns of the planetary sphere that are being expressed in the manner which we were describing in our previous answer to your query about the difficult harvest; for as you are expanding in your own ability to experience and appreciate the vastness of the spiritual searching that your energy body allows you to have, you are also experiencing some of those difficult vibrations that are everywhere present, and which impinge upon the unitive experience that is attempting to manifest itself through your meditative state.

Is there another query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, once again, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have one that is sort of related to that. When we come fully into fourth density, I wonder will our auras become one aura on the planet? The people—the mind/body/spirit auras?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. A portion of the experience for each seeker that is able to make the graduation into the fourth density of love and understanding, is to have the aura, as you call it, expand in a fashion which joins with others of the same vibratory level, to form an auric envelope, shall we say, of what you may call the social memory complex. Thus, each entity within the social memory complex adding to the overall vibratory nature of this complex, its own experience of each lifetime, including this lifetime, so that there is a vibratory representation of all efforts at seeking the One Infinite Creator that blend in an harmonic fashion, that allows the social memory complex to have a, what you would call a “data bank” of information upon which it may call at any time within your social memory complex’s experience, where there is the desire to serve in a certain fashion, other selves who call for the services that are possible to offer according to the makeup of the social memory complex.

Is there another query, my sister?

No, thank you.

We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I have a query from L, who writes: “If one is pursuing the path of the adept, seeking to find and be able to hold the oneness within, is it recommended to maximize the time spent in awareness of the Creator in a more meditative state, or is it recommended to consciously take breaks from this state often in order to work with the ever-present catalyst around us, or will the path simply present itself and there’s no need to aim for either?” 2

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. As one proceeds along the path of seeking, it is often discovered that the meditative state offers not only direction but the opportunity to enhance one’s own appreciation of various facets of the path that one is upon. Primarily, in relationship with other entities that offer a certain kind of catalyst that may enhance the journey, for each kind of catalyst may be explored by the seeker, both consciously, as the catalyst is first experienced, and then subconsciously, or even, shall we say, super-consciously, as the catalyst is taken into the meditative state in order to utilize the opportunities the catalyst provides for learning and growth.

This is a type of blending of both of the conscious and subconscious or super-conscious levels of appreciation and utilization of the catalyst that one finds in the daily round of activities. Thus, it is up to each seeker of truth to determine the ratio of meditative time to contemplative times, to conscious interaction with other entities within one’s circle of friends, shall we say. So, there is not what you may call a kind of equation or definite description of the ratio of time spent in any one particular type of consciousness. It is unique to each entity so that each entity may utilize its skills in being able to appreciate the experience that is its destiny, shall we say, its pre-incarnatively chosen pattern that begins to take shape more and more clearly and more and more profoundly as each seeker of truth moves along its path of seeking.

Is there another query, my brother?

Not a follow-up to that one. Thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo. Is there another query at this time?

If there’s not another one from the group here today, I do have one from a seeker from Nairobi, Kenya, named A. He asks this question, and it’s in two parts. The first part relates to what we were talking about in the last session. “How might we transcend the identification with the illusory ego self, particularly as it relates to the feelings of anxiety and fear.”

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my sister. Transcending is a pivotal term in this regarding. We would suggest that the conscious self, that which you have called the egoic self, is the self that experiences the anxiety, or any catalyst, that may be presented to the seeker of truth. This conscious self, then, must then seek assistance from a greater portion of the self, that which you may call the transcendent self, that one finds in the meditative state, if one is able to move past the various voices that make themselves apparent in the beginning stages of meditation.

As one is able to find that quiet, still point within the heart of one’s being, the transcendent self, the witness that is ever present for each seeker of truth, at this time is then able to offer a broader view or perspective, shall we say, to the seeker, so that that which seems anxiety producing in the conscious experience of the self may be seen in relationship to the larger purpose or perspective of the seeker that is able to utilize the spiritual principles that are more apparent within the meditative state, and see that that which has produced anxiety in the conscious state is but a, shall we say, agent provocateur that is meant to focus the attention upon a certain feature of the experience in order that a particular lesson may be learned that has, in some fashion, provided a challenge in the past. In the meditative state, the challenge may be seen to be met by a broader point of view that shows how a kind of lesson, or conclusion, may be drawn when one looks at the anxiety-producing situation from this larger perspective. The larger perspective comes from the subconscious mind that is well aware of the preincarnative choices that have been made and have been expressed in a certain way which has caused anxiety for the conscious self and growth potential for the soul itself.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Well, you’ve answered part of the second part of his question, but I’ll just read it, rather than trying to sort it out. He asks: “Would Q’uo also please discuss the use of meditation (that’s what you were just doing) but also any body and breath exercises that might help balance the energy body and aid in this transcending.”

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my sister. As we spoke previously, the meditative state is that which allows the consciousness to move into a realm of expanded awareness where there are opportunities and resources that can address any situation in the external world that the conscious mind may encounter. The manner in which these resources are used is, of course, up to the choice of the one who seeks and meditates as a means of utilizing catalyst.

The use of the breath to find a deeper level of consciousness may often allow the utilization of these resources in a more efficacious manner so that the breathing deeply, in a rhythmic fashion, exhaling, holding the breath, inhaling, holding the breath, for a portion of time which feels comfortable to the meditator may allow the falling away of various extraneous distractions that keep the meditator from utilizing the resources of the deeper mind.

Thus, there is the possibility, through such deep breathing, to find a deeper level of experience and resources to call upon in processing the catalyst of the day.

Is there another query at this time?

No, I thank you so much.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister.

Is there a final query at this time?

Q’uo, for those who sorrow and feel deep worry about the disharmony and disorder of our institutions and societies, and maybe civilization itself, would you have any words of encouragement or inspiration or illumination to offer?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. As we mentioned at the beginning of this session, it is always an inspiration to us to join your circle of seeking, because we know what kind of challenges you face on a daily basis, as both individual seekers of truth, and as groups of those who attempt to work together to make positive changes in the society around you. There is so much of anger, so much of confusion, so much of jealousy, so much of retribution, so much of destruction, that it is overwhelming to any sensitive soul who seeks to make sense of the world around it within the meditative state, within the conscious state, within the sleeping state, one cannot escape the disharmonious interactions that are the day-to-day experience of most entities upon the surface of your planet. Each entity is bombarded with one report or another of killings, of anger, of challenges, of threats, of limitation, of one kind of mass murder or another, whether it is mental, physical, psychological or emotional. There is so much of dissention that is the normal way of things in your third-density illusion.

We would encourage each seeker of truth that wishes to make sense of it all to look within the heart and to see that each entity that is crying out for assistance, that is crying out in anger or frustration is the One Creator that has provided itself with challenges enumerable to find a reason to open the heart in love to all. At some point in each entity’s journey, there comes the time when one throws down the intellectual defenses, the intellectual attack, the emotional retribution, and says within, “This must stop. I now stop my anger and open my heart in love.”

Know then that when any soul does this, as more and more are doing now upon your planetary surface, this type of seeking and sharing of the love and the light of the One Creator within each individual heart has a resounding and resonating effect that affects every other seeker on the planet, every other soul on the planet that has any kind of sensitivity to the vibrations of love and acceptance, that when you can find any kind of love within your own heart and share it in meditation, in contemplation, in conscious interaction with others, that love will be felt by every other soul on the planet, for indeed, each entity is a portion of the One Infinite Creator, cells in the body of the One who made us all, and when your love is expressed to any other soul, every cells in the body of the One Creator resonates with this love and light, and there is, for at least a moment, a kind of healing of the anger, of the retribution, of the disturbances of doubt and confusion.

You, as one individual seeker can make a difference in this world as you find love within yourself and share it with others, and as more and more entities are able to do this, more and more love is generated so that there is a kind of momentum built up, that is hoped for, at some point to find the, shall we say, threshold of entrance into every soul on the planet, so that at some point it is possible that your planet could, indeed, harmonize in one fine, strong moment of inspiration, as those of Ra put it so well.

We encourage each of you to keep the faith, to keep moving forward, keep doing what you’re doing, because you are on the path of seeking the love and the light of the One Creator, and as you seek it, you shall find it; as you knock, the door shall be opened to you. Rejoice then, that you are a portion of the One Creator, and know then that all others are of the same origination, and shall again at some point, unite in unity, and peace and love and understanding.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

Sometimes, Q’uo, or the instrument through which Q’uo speaks, just doesn’t conclude the thought that began the sentence. ↩

This question from L was accidentally asked twice, previously in the session from May 11, 2019. ↩

