Luminate Festival, New Zealand 1

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and greet each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are most pleased and gratified to be asked to join this circle of seeking, where you have much love that is evident in this circle as you come together to seek that which is a further extrapolation of love and light, the basic building blocks of your universe, your bodies, your minds, and your spirits. It is our great joy to be with you, and before we begin, we would ask a small favor of you, and that is, take those words and concepts which we speak and use them as you will, leaving behind any which do not resonate in clarity with you. We would not be a stumbling block on your journey of seeking, and if you would do us this small favor, we will feel free to share with you that which we have to share, for in so sharing with you, we advance our own journey to the One Infinite Creator. We assure you that we are but your brothers and sisters who have moved a bit further on the same path that we tread with you, and we are happy to be able to extend our hand in service to you.

At this time, we would ask if there might be any query to which we might respond.

I have a question. I wonder if there’s any help that could be offered to us when we notice the polarities in someone else and how we can balance that view of someone else’s polarities for ourselves?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The experience that you have on your Planet Earth at this time is one in which you each are mixed with the various polarity distortions—the positive, the negative, the male, the female, the right, the wrong, the in, the out, the up, the down. There is much dichotomy within your illusion. Much of this is useful in your own spiritual growth. That which you see within another human being of the nature of a polarized quality, is that which this particular being finds it helpful to utilize at this point in the space and time of its incarnation, for each entity has within it, the various distortions, or shall we say, pre-incarnative choices which have been made and will hopefully advance the entity upon his own path of seeking and serving the One Creator. However, these distortions, or polarities, can oftentimes seem to an outside observer to be, shall we say, out of balance or distorted or [inaudible], where necessary, of a certain kind of quality that seems to be working against the higher principles that all share within a certain group, and yet if we view such an entity in an objective spiritual sense, we can see that each seeker of truth has within it that which you may call the compass, with the needle pointing the direction that it would wish to move in its spiritual path. At various times, various seekers have accentuated in their seeking a direction which does not seem in accordance with that which it has previously traveled, or has stated that it desires to travel.

This is the nature of the creation which exists in which there are choices made upon the basis of relative value to each seeker, each seeker may determine at some point within its journey that there is an alteration in the path it is necessary to be made. This decision to make the change is not often an intellectual one or one which has been carefully considered, but one which is more of an intuitive nature. Now it is important, of course, to develop the quality of the intuition and to move in accordance with it when one feels that there is a certain impetus that is important to observe within [inaudible]. However, there are times when the intuitive quality is that which is not clearly received, for it is of the unconscious mind, and moves into the conscious mind in a manner which does not always include the clear conception or perception of this intuitive impulse by the entity that is feeling it and moving in accordance with it. Thus, there are oftentimes when such movements may seem to the outside observer to be out of synchronization, or out of balance, with the entity’s normal state of being and state of desire to serve. At such times, it is helpful for those who are in the circle of friends of the seeker to attempt to reflect to the seeker that which is observed to be of an unusual movement or quality.

The attempt to communicate this information may be done in a certain fashion which is of help to all entities included so that the information is not given in a manner which seems to place a blame, or an unusual responsibility upon the entity which has demonstrated the seemingly disharmonious perception of its own path of seeking. Thus, the sympathetic communication that attempts to cause inner reflection and outer sharing with those about it, is that which is almost always recommended for such a situation as you have described.

Thus, feeling the emotions and the directions of the part of the spiritual journey that one with whom concern is felt is a good place to begin this type of communication, for there is in each of us—and we include ourselves as well—the occasional inability to correctly interpret those influences which we feel are potentially helpful in directing the actions, the seeking, the serving of the One. Thus to become the entity that you have concern about before sharing those concerns is often a valuable exercise in that it puts you in that entity’s place with a greater possibility of being able to feel the nature of this entity’s seeking and actions, thoughts, beliefs.

Thus, the communication that would follow this empathetic blending of one being with another may then be more informed in order that it also have more compassion and share the concerns that are also moving this entity in its path of seeking.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister.

Is there another query at this time?

Does Q’uo have any recommendations to help us in connecting with this land and help us to activate the channeling that we are wanting to do here to transmit positive energy. Is there anything else that we can do to empower the situation?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This land on which you dwell is a being of great wisdom and love, as you are well aware. This entity that is presenting itself to you in the form of geographical features, land, trees, water, air, is that which functions according to the divine plan the One Creator to be able to develop the natural means that would enable it to express its joy and love of the One from which it comes. Thus, if in your efforts at blending your energies with this entity, you can also be able to empathically identify with this being in a manner which opens the heart in total, unconditional love, so that there may be a communication developed between you and your land friend that may enlighten both of you, there is the possibility of an experience that is shared by both of you in which the purpose of the being and its joy in serving the One Creator might be enhanced so that there is a greater and deeper communion between you.

The beginning stages of this community are well underway, and there is a clear pathway already available through your previous efforts that will allow further communication to be had by you and this landed being that you so joyously serve and love. There is much of gratification and feelings of love that are returned to you from this land, as you move more and more in harmony with it and its overall purpose of making a joyful connection with all of the creation that both you and the land desire.

There is much of beauty that has already been created by your efforts and in most respects we would suggest that you continue on the trail that you now travel for you have done such great work to date that our simple suggestion is a mere refinement of what you have already accomplished.

Is there another query, my sister?

No thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo. Is there a further query at this time?

I have a question. What are the spiritual qualities for us to focus on to continue to flourish?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The spiritual qualities which you have already exhibited within this land of experience, this experience of the sharing of the joy of the One Infinite Creator at your Luminate Festival is that which is of great beauty and loving kindness that we in the higher densities are very well aware of as we can perceived a great beam of light emanating from this particular ground and celebrated experience.

We can only suggest that you continue to do what you are doing, for opening your heart as you have done, to the land, and those who join you on the land, is that which will allow you to perceive each additional step that might be taken in the general sense and in specific senses to relate to more of the entities who join you here in a fashion which gives them more of the feeling of what is available on this particular piece of land, in the way of the vested love and direction of service to the One Creator so that each entity may feel that it is contributing its portion of love and light in this endeavor.

Thus, there may be perhaps more inclusion of those participants within your festival in the ceremonies of the praising of the Creator, the purpose of each endeavor to share information, each workshop, each singing and dancing occasion, so that the sacred nature of each of these events might be emphasized in a manner which entities may feel inspired to deepen their participation and become more of the creators of the being that is this land, so that you share with them your custodial purpose or nature and allow them to feel that there is a place that is even more exalted and purposeful and useful than that which you have been displaying and participate within.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister.

Is there another query at this time?

I’d ask if there is information regarding energies from crystals of different sorts, and how we can best use these properties to serve [inaudible].

My sister, I am Q’uo. We were not able to perceive your query through this instrument’s otic complex. Could we ask you to restate with more volume in your voice?

I have a question regarding the properties of the crystals and how we can best use them as tools for the highest good for the land and those that dwell within it.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query. We thank you for your repetition of the query. The crystals that are already upon and within this land are beacons of light and love energy which may be enhanced in their function of sharing the vitality of the creation as a whole through their expression of the intelligent energy that moves through them that then becomes a kind of invigorating or enlivening force within the land in its very molecular structure. The ability to energize the crystals is that which we would recommend as a means of enhancing the function of the crystals’ relationship to the land and the land’s ability to receive the enhanced vibrations that come from the crystalized light and love energy that is itself a response to your visualization of energy moving into the crystal for a specific purpose. We would recommend that you find within your own being the kind of direction that you feel is most appropriate for the land itself and for how you wish to improve the functioning of the crystalized nature of the land.

Thus, we would recommend that if you wish to accomplish the enhancement of the crystalized nature of the land, that you engage in daily meditative visualizations that would see the love and light of the One Creator passing through your energy system from the violet ray down through the red ray circulating back to your indigo ray chakra so that it might be projected therefrom into the trees, the land, the crystals that reside within the land that all may be enlivened by the love and light that you visualize and send to all of these portions of this property, so that the overall quality of the land is enhanced at the molecular structure, and this, in itself, is that which will bring about a greater amount of vitality so that all of the property itself becomes invigorated and able to express more and more of the love and the light of the One Creator.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Yes. Is there a better position to do this, and a better time to do this, and does it always need to be on this land, or can it be remotely?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The performance of these rituals of enlivening and empowering the crystal nature of the land, may be accomplished most effectively at the full moon stage of the monthly cycles of the moon. We can suggest that the light that emanates from the full moon, may be able to enhance your visualization of the energy of the One Creator moving through your indigo ray chakra and to move then into the crystals within the land in a manner which is more effective because of the ability of the moon’s full feature, or flowing of light, to be able to enhance your effort in a gentle fashion that makes it more likely that the light that you provide will be fully absorbed by the crystals themselves, and then be able to accomplish the greater enlivening of the land itself.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Can this only be done while sitting on this land?

I am Q’uo and we believe that your query was: “Can this only be done with the people on the land?” Is this correct?

No. Can the practice of the receiving of the light of the One Creator through the violet ray down into the crystals—can that only be done through this instrument sitting physically on this land?

I am Q’uo and we believe that we understand your query. We suggest that this ritual of visualizing the light and enlivening the crystallization of the land may be done by any entity who is either on the land, or has the land in its mind, no matter where its own geographic location is. Does this satisfy your query, my sister?

Yes, thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question to do with the activation of the land and the consciousness and the co-creation. Is there a dispensation available or any—that’s the word that’s coming, dispensation—available to help keep the beloved souls that are coming here safer from the powerful energies created at this festival?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The safeguards which are currently in place which are primarily the trusting that the One Creator is available to provide the guidance and protection to those who seek most purely to serve him, is that which we would recommend most heartily, for what you are doing here, as you engage the entities that are visiting this land in their ability to appreciate it, and to celebrate it and their own love for it, is that which provides a certain kind of protection, in that the fruit of your efforts is more and more unconditional love experienced by the land from the participants upon the land. Thus, this kind of generation of unconditional love provides a kind of protection that is quite efficient in being able to envelop those who seek this protection in the protective love and light of the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, that’s very clear. Thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister.

Is there a final query at this time?

Does Q’uo have any advice for those that are putting a lot of time and energy into working together with the shared partners and in those moments when they feel energetically depleted, other than getting some sleep, does Q’uo [inaudible] that there are some practices that maybe could be helpful to provides some support for people’s energies so that they can carry on, and develop or cultivate a more—a cycle of continuing energy helps them to carry on, that ends up being positive energetically, rather than feeling depleted?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The love and devotion of those entities of whom you speak is that which is most impressive in our position within your environment. We see so clearly how each has offered that which it has wholeheartedly in order to blend its energies with those of all others. The weariness that comes from the continual physical, intellectual, emotional and spiritual expenditure of energies is a natural product of such unbounded devotion and commitment. There is a certain price that must be paid by each in this regard, for that which you do has a great spiritual value that is bought by this weariness. The effort that you make to be of service to others costs a certain amount of your energy. This type of depletion is not always immediately able to respond to the efforts that are made to alleviate for it is something that is equivalent of what you would call “friction” where material objects that move against each other create a kind of wearing and tearing upon each other.

Therefore our suggestion would be that in some fashion you might be able to conduct circles of energy generation where in the meditative state you gather together in a certain location considered by you to be efficacious for such ceremony and find a manner of expressing your love of that which you have done as an offering to the One so that it becomes a sort of mirror reflecting to you that which has come from you, to be able to serve others.

Thus, in such a ceremony, you may be able to see the spiraling light of the One Infinite Creator moving clockwise about your circle with more and more rapidity, so that the light grows brighter and brighter and begins to imbue each entity with its energy. This kind of a visualization can be utilized to bring mind/body/spirit complex to higher and higher levels of functioning with less need to experience the natural wear and tear of the offering of self without limit.

At this time, we shall thank each present for offering his or her love and light to us. We feel your love greatly within our own heart chakras, and we are appreciative of that love which you have so generously offered to us. We hope that our humble words have aided you in some degree in like manner for it is our great desire to be of service to such loving and sympathetically creative entities.

We are aware that each of you has a great deal of commitment to being of service to others and this service is like unto a beacon that reaches into the atmosphere around you and moves to infinity to become a demonstration of that love and light that comes from you to those who are experiencing it coming to them.

We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We leave you now in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. Peace and blessings be with you. Adonai vasu borragus.

This channeling was held at the Luminate Festival at Canaan Downs near Takaka, New Zealand, for the founders of the festival. The land is cared for by the Canaan Downs Collective, of which Luminate Festival Trust is a key member. The focus of these questions on the care for the land and the people is a small glimpse of the dedication to service exemplified by the various individuals involved in organizing the festival and caring for the land. Visit the Luminate website to learn more. ↩

