(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument. We greet each of you in love and in light this day. We are most grateful, as always, to be asked to join your group in your efforts of seeking and serving the One Creator who lives in all. We have always felt a kinship to this group, for it has been our experience as individualized portions of the principle of Q’uo to work with this group over a long period of what you would call time, and during this time we have become familiar with each as he or she moves along the path of eternal seeking of the One in all. We, as always, would be grateful if you could do this, a small favor, and as you know, that is simply to take our words for whatever meaning they might have for you, and use them as you will, leaving behind any that do not have meaning for you at this time, for we would not wish to seem to be authorities with each word needing to be recognized and utilized. If you will help us in this regard then we will feel free to speak as we may, to your queries.

With that having been said, may we ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

I have one, Q’uo. Ra says that the blue-ray energy center requires honesty, noting that it is something that the people of Earth have in great paucity. 1 In contemplating the meaning of this, I have framed my understanding with the idea that punching a person in the face is an honest expression of anger, yet it doesn’t seem to indicate an open and functioning blue ray, leading me to believe that the honesty that Ra refers to is a deeper and more intimate honesty. Can Q’uo elaborate on this type of honesty that is related to blue-ray work and how we can cultivate that honesty?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother, and it is a salient query at this time in the evolution of your planetary consciousness and each entity within it, for as you each know, these times in which you live and move and have your being are fraught with much confusion, much division, much anger, and much separation.

The honesty that would be required to begin to unravel the tangle of these snafus, shall I say, is a kind of honesty that reflects the nature of the creation that is available to each seeker of truth. The creation that you find all about you in your everyday round of activities is a creation of seeming separation, and yet is a creation made out of the unity of the One Creator by utilizing an infinity of qualities, personalities, and desires not only for seeking and serving the Creator, but for determining for the self what are the most important qualities of the life experience.

Thus, when looking at the concept of honesty, it is well to find within your perceptions the ability of honesty to look to the root of the nature of all beings and all creations to see the creation of the One in every facet of the daily experience. This honesty requires a searching and a delving deeply into one’s own being and its relationship to each entity and property of the creation about it.

Thus, so seeking, is the seeker informed of the unity that binds all things and all entities. This is the foundation of honesty—that is, unity. The seeming separation that springs from this unity is an illusion that has been created in order to aid each seeker of truth in penetrating the outer qualities of the illusion so that as one looks at the daily round of activities that produce catalyst with other entities, one can see beyond the disharmony, the separation, the confusion and the seeming chaos, and look into the heart of not only the other beings, but also the heart of the self, and find there the quality of unconditional love that is the binding quality for all of the creation, for it is the power of love that has made all that is within the creation, and within each seeker’s life experience.

If each seeker, then, can look at its own experience within its heart, within its mind, and within its soul identity, and discover the qualities of unity, the qualities of unconditional love, and the quality of clear communication, then the concept of honesty as it is applied in those teachings of the ones known as Ra can be made available to any entity who makes this seeking journey within its own being to find how honesty can be pure and clear, compassionate, and fully imbued with the qualities of unity.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Just to clarify my understanding of what you were saying, would you say it is correct to say that somebody who is speaking with blue-ray honesty is speaking as a Creator to a Creator instead of speaking from their distortions to another person’s distortions?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother, and we believe that you have stated it most clearly, indeed, for the blue-ray energies are truly the energies of the Creator that are offered outwardly to any entity within the range of beingness of the one seeking to be honest and to express honesty. The Creator, at that point, resides within such an entity, and is able to reflect a broad spectrum of beingness in any attempt at clear, honest, communication.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I would like to ask, when Ra said to see the Creator in ourselves and then become the Creator, could you elaborate on what that means exactly and how one would go about becoming the Creator, or being the Creator?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The beginning of becoming the Creator, as you are aware from those teachings of the ones known as Ra, is to attempt to know yourself in as deep and various a manner as possible, to know your basic emotions, your desires, your abilities, your experience, and how you see the world about you and the world within you. This involves looking at your daily round of activities carefully to perceive the catalyst that has been harvested from your daily round of activities, and to process that catalyst as the nutritious type of spiritual food that it is so that you may grow from ingesting the balanced vision of the catalyst you have experienced.

As this process of seeking continues throughout your lifetime, you will then have the opportunity to accept all of the qualities that have appeared within your life experience and have them balanced in a conscious fashion in your meditative states on a regular basis. The acceptance of all that you are … And you are all things, my sister—the mind that you have, the soul that you have, and the spirit that you have contain all that there is. You are, indeed, the microcosm of the One Creator.

As you are able to accept yourself as whole and perfect, even with imperfections within you, then you are prepared to become the Creator, for you have discovered the Creator within you as a portion of the knowledge of your being. [When] you have accepted that Creator within you as you go through the balancing of catalyst, you have open to you a door which allows you to see yourself as the Creator experiencing itself in every interaction with every other that you ever have had, ever shall have.

This becoming of the Creator is opening a door to a greater experience of yourself as the One that has made all that there is. This is a gift that is given to the seeking self that enters into meditation and utilizes its will to serve as that pathway to the One Creator: exercising the great desire to know the One, to be the One, to express the One, letting that desire and that will open that door widely so that the One in all its glory, power, peace and majesty may express itself to you, not just through the door, but within your self as well. This is a process of a lifetime of seeking that can, shall we say, end in a moment of inspiration and enlightenment, where the light that shines comes from within you and from without you, and is one with you.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?

In the Ra contact, the First Distortion, the first primal distortion is referred to both as the “Law of Confusion,” and the “Law of Free Will.” But, I think Ra actually calls it Law of Confusion 27 times and Law of Free Will only twice in response to Don. Clearly they favored the Law of Confusion as the moniker for the First Distortion. Can Q’uo elaborate on why it is that Ra prefers to call [it] the Law of Confusion?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. As each entity within this third-density illusion exercises free will, it is attempting to create a sensibility, or a construction of understanding concerning the world in which it finds itself, in the manner in which it moves through this created world. As Ra has said so many times, this density in which you exist is not a density of understanding—it is density of intentions.

The intention and desire and exercise of will to seek the truth is one which goes through a process of what you might call trial and error, learning step by step what seems to be the most appropriate manner in which the self may view itself, the world about it, and other selves within it. These interactions create catalyst, as you are aware, which most often has its roots in misperceptions, in disharmony, and in incorrectly perceiving the communications and intimations of other entities so that confusion results. This confusion, then, offers the seeker an opportunity to rectify, or clarify the nature of the confusion so that there is a greater likelihood that the seeker may be able to harvest a kind of understanding, if you will pardon the misnomer, that might enlighten it in a greater way regarding all of its questions that revolve around the nature of its being, the progress of its seeking, the goal of the journey, and so forth.

This type of exercise of free will that produces confusion, that offers catalyst, that offers further direction in the seeking, is a process which is predominantly undertaken within your third-density illusion so that the choice of polarity may be made, and the polarized choice for service to others or service to self may then be promulgated in higher densities. Now, the higher densities do not have the veil of forgetting, so there is less likelihood that there will be as much confusion in the exercise of free will in those densities, as there is in the third density. However, the higher densities do still utilize the exercise of free will that produces in its own way, a kind of confusion that offers a need for examination for further growth in the inner sensing of the way to unify with the One once again.

The balancing exercises, shall we say, that are carried out in the higher densities are much, much finer, and less liable to grosser distortions. However, there is still much to learn in the way of seeking the truth in the higher densities so that the exercise of free will continues to produce a certain kind of confusion that then offers an opportunity for further growth.

Is there a further query, my brother?

I think so. One second, please. Might the exercise of free will be an act of confusion because despite all possible appearances, there is only ever infinity and unity, then who is the real actor? Who is the one making the choices? Do we confuse ourselves for assuming illusory individuals have a will separate from the Creator? Is this perhaps connected to why it is called “confusion?”

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We believe that you have successfully stated another aspect of the information which we attempted to share in our previous query and its answer. We suggest that, indeed, as each entity seems to exercise free will, one might look at the eventual outcome of every entity’s exercise of free will and see that it results in reunification with the One Infinite Creator. So, then, it can be asked: Is there truly free will, if all eventually arrive at the same point at which they began?

Some might say there is free will in every aspect of every choice of every being at all times, and be correct. Others might say there is no true free will, for each seeker will find its way home, some more quickly, some more slowly, yet all will reach the same destination, so there is no true free will, otherwise some would not find their way home, and also be correct.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you very much, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have another one, Q’uo. The Confederation often speaks about the essential value of meditation, referring to the silence and stillness found therein. However, there are many seekers who have found elevated states of spiritual awareness through things like rhythm, dance, and movement such as chanting, or drumming, or walking meditation, or so-called movement-based embodied contemplative practices.

All of these things seem to be antithetical to the ideas of silence and stillness. Do these practices result in the same benefits as meditation, and if not, how are they different?

I am Q’uo and believe we understand your query, my brother. Please correct us if we are incorrect.

The types of experience which you have described have in common with the meditative state the focusing of the mind for a particular purpose. The purpose in most meditative states is union with the One Creator. The purpose, as we understand it, in the focusing of the mind for the accomplishment of movements of a certain nature also express the opportunity for the unification of the entity so- moving with the One Creator’s ability to move in a certain rhythm as it creates that which you know as the one creation. There is a rhythm to the creation that each entity may become aware of in its movements, so that it may blend its movements with the great dance of the One Creator that exists in each moment, and each experience. So, each entity so dancing or moving or vibrating its vocal cords, or chanting in any manner whatsoever may be deemed proper, is also utilizing another path to the One Creator.

Each of these means of experiencing the Creator may be seen as likened to the spokes of a wheel which all lead to the center, so that the wheel turns in a balanced fashion, allowing the traveler of each spoke to become aware of the One within all, as it practices the meditation, the chanting, or the dance.

Is there another query, or a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, that was an accurate assessment of my question.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I want to build off something Austin said, and focus on meditation, and focus on focusing itself. Ra describes that the Logos, or the Second Distortion, is a focusing of infinity. This act of focusing is what brings intelligent energy into manifestation and creates the Logos. Is there a connection between the focusing of infinity that creates the Logos, and the focusing necessary in the practice of meditation that brings stillness, silence, and eventually deep absorption and unity with the Creator?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The focus that is achieved by the Logos is a focus which is multi-faceted, in that it is a forming of the intelligent energy of the One Creator into various forms that you see in your night sky as the stars the galaxies, the creation of the One expressed through each Logos. It is each Logos’s choice to focus this intelligent energy in any fashion which is in keeping with the desire of the One Creator to know Itself through the creation in each form of intelligence that partakes of the one creation.

Thus, there is the expression of a kind of rhythm that those of Ra speak of as if it were the beating of a giant heart so that it is the movement of energies that are intelligent outward into the infinite realms of the one creation, and yet, at the same time, move backward in a type of inhalation that balances the exhalation so that you might see the Logos of each galaxy as being the quintessential meditator as it is giving and receiving that which it is: intelligent energy, the unity of the One potentiated into action.

Thus, each individual entity within your third-density illusion is also a Logos in miniature, shall we say, that seeks the One from within its own being, and yet seeks it also outside of itself so that there is a balance between that which is seen outside the self and that which is seen inside the self in the meditative state, thus achieving the equivalent of the beating of the giant heart within the microcosmic self.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Yeah, I do have a follow-up. So, I was following your line of thought that describes the mind/body/spirit complex as a Logos in miniature who is participating in that giant beating of the heart by seeing all outside the self and all within the self as the Creator. Could you speak specifically to what role focusing plays in the mind/body/spirit complex? And is there any way to elaborate on how that connects to the Logos itself, the Second Distortion Logos?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The focusing of both the Logos and the third-density mind/body/spirit complex is a gathering and pinpointing, or focusing, of energies for a specific purpose, rather than allowing the energies to be freely floating, shall we say, to be expressing in a non-directed manner.

Feeling the free will choice of all beingness to move as it will, each entity within your third-density illusion, and the Logos of each galaxy, then takes this energy within its own being, macrocosmic or microcosmic, and makes of it a kind of magnifying glass, so that it may be utilized in a productive or creative or information-producing manner. It may be producing, shall we say, work of a metaphysical nature. It is the harnessing of these diverse energies that move in what seems to be an undirected manner and directing them so that there may be a kind of work accomplished, both by the individual mind/body/spirit complex within your third-density illusion, and by the Logos of any particular galaxy in the infinite universe, thus each is connected to the other through the ability to focus these seeming undirected energies of intelligent infinity.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Very illuminating. Thank you. A quick follow-up, and then if you the instrument has energy, K has a question. This act of focusing as you are describing it, is this connected to why Ra describes the path of the adept as that being a straight and narrow path?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. And this is the simple answer, and that is yes.

Is there a final query at this time?

Thank you, Q’uo. I would like to ask about, or make a query about, from what you can comment on, or if they’re both individually and collectively, of our progress as entities working toward opening our hearts, toward greater compassion and understanding over these past few months and few years.

It seems to me that we have in the midst of much turmoil collectively there might be some opening for greater love and understanding coming in because of a displacement of energies that have been, for example rigidly oppositional or fixed in their thoughts or stances, and that perhaps if great change has happened collectively in our populations that it makes room for compassion and love and understanding to come in, and it sounds paradoxical, but I’m wondering if you could comment upon the increase, the awareness that is increasing, of the need to be more loving and compassionate, and if this is actually going on?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, the state of consciousness, shall we say, of many upon your planet at this time has benefited greatly by the disharmonies that have been so rampant and easily apparent as time has progressed through your recent decades. There has been much of darkness, much of disharmony, and yet within the darkness and the disharmony lie the opportunity for resolution of the darkness and disharmony by those whose hearts are open and who feel the desire to serve the One. [Those of this type] work as assiduously as possible to find solutions, both within the self, within the community, and within the larger world about it, so that those areas that are dark and disharmonious might find light shined into them by the attention of those with open hearts who are willing and able to give of themselves in a manner which inspires others to do likewise. [In this way] that there is a kind of momentum of consciousness that begins to grow stronger and stronger within various segments of each population in each country of your planetary consciousness.

These entities with the open hearts and the desire to find solutions to difficulties are becoming more and more numerous as there is a kind of communication setting up from heart to heart and making available a type of avenue of expression of awareness so that the light of common human consciousness grows brighter and brighter to reveal the difficulties, their sources and their solutions. This is a process which is gaining more and more momentum at this time, and which gives us who that exist in the inner realms great hope and inspiration as we observe the possibilities of your planetary consciousness becoming such as to become able to move into the fourth-density of love and understanding with a greater number of entities thus being able to participate in this harvesting period.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument, as it is becoming somewhat fatigued. We thank each present once again for the opportunity to join your group and to experience the love and appreciation that each of you has for the other and for the opportunities of being alive in this world today, and being able to move in a fashion that serves the one in all at all times. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We leave each in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.

Ra: “There is always some difficulty in penetrating blue primary energy for it requires that which your people have in great paucity; that is, honesty. Blue ray is the ray of free communication with self and with other-self.” #48.7 ↩

