(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and greet each of you in love and in light. We are with you at this time in spirit and in truth. We see the shining being that each is as you sit within this circle of seeking, and we cannot thank you enough for including an invitation to us to join you here, that we may share with you those concepts and concerns that may be upon your minds and your hearts.

At this time we would ask, as is our habit, if you would do us a small favor, and that is to take our words with a grain of salt, shall we say. Take those that have meaning to you at this time and use them as you will, as you must, and leave behind those words which have no meaning for you at this time, without giving them a second thought. In this way you clear a path for us to speak as we will, without any danger of becoming a stumbling block to you upon your path.

At this time, we would ask if there might be a question with which we could begin this session.

Greetings, Q’uo. I’ve been doing some energy healing with Andara crystals and wanted to know if you had any advice on how to do that better or more safely.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Though we would greatly desire to give you instruction in this use of the Andara crystal for the healing purposes, we find that we must be general in order to not infringe upon your own free will, for to give specific instructions would be tantamount to learning for you. However, we find that your query does contain the opportunity to share some of the more basic elements in the use of crystals in general for healing, and for enhancing the flow of the prana energies through any seeker of truth who wishes to remove the distortions that are within its own system of energy centers, or chakras.

The crystal, in general, is a faceted being which has the capacity to enhance the one who seeks to heal in its ability to do so, in order that it might interrupt the pattern of the balance between the mind, the body, and the spirit in each entity seeking healing. Thus, the crystalized healer is as important in the healing process as is the crystal itself, for the crystal is that being of inestimable value and intelligence which can utilize the light that moves through your being as you project that light into the crystal, so that your own love and light, or prana, as it moves through your centers of energy, is focused in a specified manner as it moves through the crystal, and therefrom into the various energy centers of the one to be healed which have become blocked by the inefficient or lack of use of catalyst from the daily round of activities for this entity.

Thus, as you are able to balance your own energy centers in a fashion which allows the prana of the One Creator to be intensified, then this prana moves through the crystal for a further intensification as you are able, then, to direct it in a particular manner to the various energy centers of the one to be healed. The one to be healed, then, has as its part in the healing process to either consciously or subconsciously accept this healing prana in the locations that are in need of balance or healing, as you may say. This is a process which is facilitated by the one to be healed asking for this service upon your part, so that you are responding in each case to a request for those services which you may offer through the Andara crystal. It is most effective in this regard in order that there may be no infringement upon free will by offering to one who has not sought healing, the healing process.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Could you elaborate on the process that happens wherein the distortions of the one to be healed passes through my energy system and is transmuted through the higher chakras.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The process of which you speak, that is, the distortions from the one to be healed moving to you, is a process which is made possible by your identification with the one to be healed in a manner in which you, in effect, become that entity for the time duration of the healing process. This is a means by which the higher self, shall we say, of the one to be healed finds a means by which the one to be healed is able to make the choice of accepting the healing process, and thereby blending its own beingness with your own, so that during the healing process you are as one with the one to be healed.

This is a feature, or function, of the process in order that these energies may be transmuted and transferred from the one to be healed through you to the infinity of the universe about you, thereby to be seen or witnessed as becoming a part of the greater reality of the beingness of the One Infinite Creator. This is much likened to the garden being fertilized, shall we say, so that those energies which were not salubrious for growth within the one to be healed may become available for energizing in a positive fashion some other portion of the One Creator at what you would call a later time.

Is there another query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have one Q’uo. The Confederation has often talked about the orange- and the yellow-ray energy centers in terms of power, particularly on the negative path—power over individuals or social or group power. I was wondering if this power can be described in positive terms, and if so, what that looks like for each of these energy centers.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. For the orange-ray energy center, the expression of the prana, or love/light of the One Infinite Creator, in a positive sense through this center, would allow the entity activating this energy center to relate to one other entity in a manner which was of acceptance, of giving, of that sharing which is personal, emotional, and individual to the two entities engaged in this type of energy exchange. The negatively oriented entities will utilize such energies in order to separate from and control such other selves that relate to the negative self on a one-to-one basis. The positively oriented entity will utilize the energies of the orange ray in order to welcome and enjoy the offerings of another in hopes that the offerings of the self to the other will be enjoyed in a similar fashion.

In the yellow-ray energy center, there is the opportunity to expand the energies of the One Creator upon the level of the group. The entities that are united in a certain fashion that allows them to share a commonality that is expressed within the group, such as the home, or family, the school, the workplace, the team, and so forth. These energies, in the positive sense, are utilized in order to share the abilities of the group in what you might call the “training wheels phenomenon” that will later become, if the fourth-density harvest is achieved by the society, the social memory complex. In the yellow-ray energy center, however, before that complex forms, there is the opportunity to begin to relate to other groups as if there was a common goal or feature between what, in negative polarity, is seen as competing groups.

Thus, in the positive sense, the entities share that which is theirs, that which is unique to them, with that which is needed by others in a group sense, so that two group then become much likened unto one group. In this positive sense then, each group becomes, in effect, the other group, so that there is one group as a result.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Yes, thank you. Just very quickly if you could tell me how correct I am in this statement that an unpolarized individual prior to opening the green-ray energy center might experience both of these types of energies in the positive and negative sense, in going throughout their days, and then the polarization begins to happen once they start choosing one expression of those energies or another. Would that be an accurate way to clarify the situation?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we would, in general agree with your summation of the process and quality of sharing of the orange- and the yellow-ray energies, so that eventually, these energies, then, are able to allow the entities so expressing them in the positive sense, to be able to make certain transitions into the green-ray energy center, moving in a unified fashion so that there is the freely given consideration, compassion, love and understanding, each to the other individual, each group to the other group, so that these individual and group energies then become spiraling in a fashion that moves into unconditional love for all entities and all groups, whether they are within the evident reach of the particular individual or group. Thus, the magnification of the positively oriented energies freely shared with the individual with the other group, then become magnified once again so that there is the sharing with all of the creation in an unclaimed or—we search this instrument’s mind for the word—unconditional sense.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you once again. Is there another query at this time?

I have a follow-up query, Q’uo. Many traditions, Eastern traditions, teach that conservation of sexual energy and the orange and red ray is useful for achieving rising of the kundalini and getting up into the heart—that you’re building up energy in those lower chakras. Does Q’uo think that is a useful practice?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that this practice has a certain utility to those who place their faith in it, for the intention is that quality which is of the most importance, not necessarily the features or factors of the process itself. The process of reserving the sexual energies in the red and orange centers of energy is a process which can lead to that which you would call a greater appreciation and experience of the creation about one, and the Creator within one.

However, we would also comment that the freely shared energies dedicated to the Creator and to service to others, flowing freely through all the energy centers, is far more efficient in becoming able to appreciate that which you call the contact with intelligent infinity, for all of the energy centers—functioning in an open fashion, allowing energy to flow freely through them—amplify and intensify this energy in a manner which has no limits, shall we say. The process of reserving the energy in the lower two energy centers is limited in its ability to produce an increase in the conscious experience of the unity with the One Creator.

However, as we said in the beginning of this answer, the intention is that which is of most importance; and the intention, the faith and the will of the one who so practices this reserving of energies, is possibly also of great value to such a person in that it would allow a certain kind of experience of this unity with the all.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, Q’uo, thank you.

I am Q’uo and again, we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Incidentally, I had questions about the orange and yellow ray also. First, a prelude: Is the full negative use of orange and yellow ray that includes separation and control from others, enslavement, manipulation, and so forth, is that a blockage of the orange and yellow rays?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. This is a query which is not easy to identify what is blockage and what is not, for it depends upon the polarity of the entity so blocking. The entity of a positive nature who wishes to utilize the yellow and the orange energy centers in its polarization process, does well to open itself freely in the giving and receiving of such energies. If there is the blocking of any energy for any reason which results in the separation of the self from another self, then the positively oriented entity has reduced its ability to polarize in the positive sense.

However, the negatively oriented entity will use such blockages to separate itself from other selves, and because separation and control are the key factors in the negative polarization, this type of blockage, then, serves the negatively oriented entity well, for it is able then to separate itself in a conscious fashion from another being, or other beings or situations, so that this separation allows it to engage in the control and manipulation of the entities or situation, thereby enhancing its ability to polarize in the negative sense.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Yes. Thank you. I understand that the negative path is a viable one, and that as Ra describes it, there is power in that falsity. But I don’t understand the physics of the energy movement. If the negative entity is blocking, intentionally, orange and yellow ray, how is it that they are drawing power through those centers, even to the point of making contact with Intelligent Infinity?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The negatively oriented entity will block the normal flow of orange- and yellow-ray energies to other individuals or groups in order that it might, in some fashion, gain a control of these individuals or groups’ own orange- and yellow-ray energies, and enhance its own energy system in this blockage and control of others. Then, this energy that is gained from others is able to be added to the negatively oriented entity’s orange and yellow-ray energy centers as they now become unblocked to function in their ability to control other selves.

Is there another query, my brother?

Yeah, quickly. No, not right now. Thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have one as a follow-up to the previous query. Would an entity so polarized toward the negative always be conscious of that, or be conscious of the fact that they are drawing energy from other selves in order to control and separate? In other words, how conscious does one have to be in order to do that?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The negatively oriented entity, utilizing the orange- and yellow-ray energy centers for separation from and control over others about it, must be totally conscious aware of the situation in which it is engaged, for the negative path is one which requires a certain purity of will and desire in order to function in the negative sense, for the creation about all entities is one of unity. In order to travel the path of that which is not, that is the path of separation from, and control over, others, the negatively-oriented entity must consciously focus all of its energies and desires and intentions upon its goal, that is, to take that which is another’s in the way of energy center activation and production of the yellow and orange ray energies.

Is there a final query at this time?

I have a final query, Q’uo. The researchers at the intentional community of Tamera, have concluded that, or theorized, that the free flow of Eros, which would be the free flow of energy throughout all energy centers with one another and the planet, is pivotal for our healing. In that vein, they have concluded that partnership, or the mated relationship is compatible with what they call “free love” or the flow, the open flow of orange-ray energy where it wishes to arise. Can Q’uo comment on that?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The utilization of the energy centers, whether it be the red, the orange, or any other energy center, in a mated relationship, or a partnership, is helpful if the intention of the mating or the sexual energy exchange is the enhancing of the vibratory nature of the planetary consciousness, that is the energies of Mother Earth, as you would say. The consciousness of the planetary energies, then, is also transferred to the population of the planet so that this conscious dedication of the use of sexual energy exchange becomes that which enhances and magnifies the well-being, shall we say, of the planetary consciousness and the group consciousness of the population of the planet. This is much likened to the enhancing and speeding up of the vital energies of both individuals, groups, and the planet itself, for these vital energies are being used in a spiritual sense in order that the goal, which is the betterment of the planetary condition, might be realized. Thus, the desire and the will and the focus of intention to do so, is that which is of utmost importance to the ones participating in the sexual energy exchange.

At this time, we would thank each of you for your love, your light, your conscientious, your support of this contact and your questions, for you do us a great favor by offering us these pearls and gems of beauty, of wisdom and of unity. We are with you always at your request to enhance your meditative vibrations, though we shall not speak at such a time, but are willing to be with you whenever you ask us to be in your meditations with you. This is a function of our desire to remain faithful to this group as this group has remained faithful to us. You are offering us an opportunity that is magical, powerful, and infinite in the ability to be of service to you, and to those who will become aware of this information in later times, as you would call it. We cannot thank you enough for allowing us to have a beingness within your consciousness and within your density of choice. We are those known to you as those of Q’uo. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.

