(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and with this instrument. We greet each of you in love and in light this day, as always. We are most happy to be called to your group once again, for it is an honor to join our vibrations with yours. You seek so valiantly in this world of illusion and disharmony of one kind or another. We know from our own experience that this is not an easy task. Therefore, when you call for our assistance, information and presence, we are most blessed in being able to answer your call.

As always, we preface our speech and thoughts with a favor that you examine what we offer you, taking those thoughts and words that have meaning for you at this time, and use them as you will, leaving behind any that do not have meaning for you now. This will allow us to speak as we will, and to share more openly that which we have to offer you.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Q’uo, would you please speak to us about how we might work with the anxiety and stress that comes from the fear of the unknown in our daily lives?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The anxiety which produces stress is a portion of each seeker’s methodology, shall we say, or technique, of preparing the self for growth. Much as a runner before a race feels the adrenaline pumping through the veins, so does the seeker of truth before the great opportunity to move more fully into unconditional love feel the anxiety that dealing with such a great unknown produces.

Each of you is well aware that you live now within a fourth-dimensional planetary influence—the fourth density being that which has become established within your illusion in greater and greater degree as the years have moved on. There is now, for each seeker of truth, a multiplicity of opportunities in each day’s experience that will open the self to greater and greater challenges to prepare the self, at the level of the soul, to receive these instreamings of fourth-dimensional vibrations. Each of you is attempting to refine your ability to discern and work with these energies that are ever increasing upon your third-density planetary influence.

This is a process which each of you is aware of, both consciously (to a degree) and subconsciously, in completeness, so that you are aware that the chance and the opportunity to find the unconditional love flowing freely from your green-ray energy center is being enhanced as you meet each new day in your life experience. Each day you are aware will give you more and more opportunities to express this unconditional love and acceptance of much which you are now not able to greet with love, for there is so much in your world that seems to be other than partaking of love, partaking of unity, partaking of light, partaking of healing, partaking of the harmonizing of all that seems disharmonious.

Thus we say to you now, that as you are aware, both consciously and unconsciously, of these opportunities within your meditative state attempt to visualize how these instreaming cosmic energies are engulfing your planet and imbuing your very being with more energy, more ability to perceive deeper within the illusion to see through the illusion to the One who resides within all.

One has so many disguises at this time that are so real it would seem, and so manifest, and so penetrating, that it is difficult to be able to see beyond the façade. However, each of you is capable of doing this. This is why you are here. This is the great challenge. This is the great mission. This is the great hope.

Is there another query, my sister?

Just to clarify, is the anxiety and the resulting stress … is there some commonality that all of us are feeling more of this because of the fourth-density vibrations being raised?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. You are quite correct, in that each entity who has awakened in a conscious fashion to the spiritual journey is now quite well aware that these times, indeed, are changing in their vibrational frequency, and the opportunity to grow is enhanced. The beginning response from most such seekers, is a feeling of “Can I do this? Is this possible?” This is stressful, but if you will take note of those times in your past when you have felt the same stress and anxiety and have moved forward nonetheless, and have done that which was so daunting to begin with, and have done well in such regard, know then, that you can do this now, as well.

Is there a further query, my sister?

This is kind of a different angle, but I was wondering, do second-density plants and animals—are they feeling any of this, or are they at a different awareness level.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each conscious being that exists within your illusion in the third density, as well as the second, and even the first, is aware to some degree that there is more, shall we say, food, or nourishment, that is pouring forth into the experience of each form of consciousness to utilize in whatever means is possible, according to the level of conscious awareness.

Is there another query, my sister?

Well, if it’s okay, I wouldn’t mind asking. You said there’s this pouring forth of information—does it give us a sense of an unknown? Does it feel like—it just seems like a vast unknown. Is it because it’s just so different from what we’re used to?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The unknown is always available to any seeker of truth who wishes to move forward in its spiritual path. This is the nature of the process of seeking. However, at certain points in the evolutionary process of planets and cycles, there is an enhancement of that which is always ongoing—the ability to welcome and enjoy the more and more purely streaming love and light of the One Infinite Creator. This time, this cusp in which there is much greater opportunities available to each seeker, this time of growth and cyclical change, is much as the mountain that seems so tall, the ocean that seems so deep, the challenge that seems so daunting. Each seeker has lived a life of preparation for this time, and this is the time when each of you is aware that that which is the purpose of your incarnation, may be fulfilled.

Is there another query, at this time?

Okay, just a quick one. I’m sorry, do those of Q’uo feel fear? When we get to fourth density will we still feel fear?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The veil of forgetting is that feature which enhances the feeling of what you call fear or anxiety, or the knowing of that challenge which is to come, that may or may not be possible for the self to meet successfully. Thusly, we who live beyond the veil do not have this quality to provide us with fear, for we see clearly the energies at hand, and are aware that we have many times utilized these energies which are merely a part of our greater self and a part of your greater self. However, within your third-density illusion, the veil of forgetting provides a much more efficient means of making the discovery of such energies and such opportunities meaningful to the seeker of truth. Therefore, the anxiety is merely a sign to your deeper self, or we should say a sign from your deeper self, that you are about to embark upon that which is the heart of your journey, the purpose of your incarnation, the destination that each seeks.

Is there another query at this time?

No, thank you so much, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, how does a seeker identify or find their purpose in life, their purpose for this incarnation?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. It is said within your holy works called the Bible that if you seek, you shall find. If you knock at the door of unknowing, it shall be opened to you. As you wish and seek and desire to know that which is your purpose, that is much like the magnetic attraction of the iron filing to the magnet.

If you seek with purity, if you seek consciously, if you seek in meditation, if you seek with every fiber of your being, you shall draw unto you that which is yours, that which you have chosen before this incarnation to experience, to grow from and to share with others, as you move through your incarnational pattern. Each of you has made these choices previous to this incarnation. Each of you has prepared yourself with a bounty of riches one may see as the opportunities to grow in a fashion in which is appropriate for you.

The life pattern is that which can be discerned in a general fashion by the intuition can be enhanced by the intellect, can be magnified by the spirit, can be realized in meditation as you are able to put yourself in the state of one-pointed seeking, so that that which is yours is drawn to you by your desire.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo, I have one question for you. Regarding seeing … particularly seeing oneself as the Creator, in addition to seeing others and seeing the world as the creation, but in seeing oneself as the Creator, there’s often, depending on the background, guilt is coming from that, because it’s somewhat seen as sacrilegious and other upbringings that you may have had. And particularly when trying to entertain this visualization or perceive that, is there any advice or could you speak to how one might be able to balance that with humility so that it’s not seen, so that you can step into your own space, but do so in a balanced manner.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. When one is able to see the self as the Creator, in one degree or another, there has been a great step taken forward in the spiritual journey, for most entities are unable to realize that they, themselves, contain the One Creator within themselves, full and whole, awaiting discovery by the self. This is the great journey that each seeker of truth finds itself upon at all times whether in your illusion, or in ours, or those beyond us. There is a greater and greater ability to perceive the One in its completeness, in its infinity, in its eternality, that may be enhanced and perceived by any seeker.

As each seeker is able to make this realization and discovery, it is also possible to see that all other seekers of truth, all other beings, all other things, are also the same Creator—that we, indeed, are all One. If you can look upon those that you meet in your daily round of activities, and see as much of the Creator in them as you see in yourself, then you will see the more and more perfect type of truth that is available to all entities at all times. The perfection of the Creation is the unity within all. As each entity is able to discover this unity, this Creator, this original thought within each being, then there is seen to be an equality amongst all entities, amongst all things, so that the One Creator who resides in all is perceived by each seeker of truth.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo and thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, if we have disharmony within ourselves, or blockage to love, or some unintegrated aspect of our being, will the increase of fourth-density energies challenge or exacerbate those conditions?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. You correctly perceive the process by which the cosmic energies now engulfing your planet serve as a kind of magnifying glass to give each seeker of truth an enhanced opportunity to move into a greater and greater harmony within the self and with all other entities about one, due to the necessity to deal with the enhanced feelings of disharmony, or misunderstanding, or doubt, or whatever blockage to the free flow of intelligent energy is working upon the seeker. Those who are unable to meet the self, shall we say, at this time, are those who are unable to utilize the increased psychic, cosmic energies now available to all.

At this time, therefore, there is a kind of split occurring amongst entities within the third-density population of your planetary sphere. The increased energies moving ever more fully and freely into your realm of experience are causing those who are willing and able to utilize these energies, to create harmony where there was disharmony, to make whole what is broken, are enhanced in their abilities and desires to do so.

Those who are not consciously aware of the process of the spiritual path being the reason for their existence within this illusion, may find more and more difficulties if they are somewhat sensitive to these enhanced energies, and have the ability to utilize them, if they but turn their mind to them and open their heart to them.

The greater majority of the entities, however, who are not consciously aware of the process of seeking in the spiritual sense, may be able to ignore and be unaffected by such energies, except in the larger sense of the cultural milieu which expresses such disharmony and discourse, that it is impossible to ignore them. However, in the personal life, such entities who are unaware of their purpose in existence being spiritual seeking, may then also be able to ignore these enhanced energies.

Is there a further query, my brother?

It seems like there are three basic roads for those on this planet; entities can just completely armor themselves against the increasing energies, and be deaf to them in a way, or they can sense them a little more strongly and decide, on one level or another, to cooperate or not cooperate with the energies. If that’s correct, what does it mean to cooperate with the fourth-density energies of love and acceptance?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. To be able to cooperate, or utilize these enhanced energies that are available to each entity upon your planetary sphere, one must be able to accept the possibility that the heart can be opened even further than it is opened at present, and be willing to step off the precipice, shall we say, as the Fool in your archetypes moves itself into a position of seeming foolishness, to open to such a degree that one is willing to share love with those who may feel very little love for you, who have, in fact, disharmony to such a degree that there is a defense against sharing love with you.

However, if you are able, in your own sense of self, to open your heart, your mind, your being, in honesty and in freely given love and light, and make oneself vulnerable to further reception of disharmony, yet nevertheless continue forward in that love and light, you may find that there is the opportunity to make well what was harmful, to make whole what was broken, and to fill with love the void that contained none before.

Is there a further query, my brother?

One more, thank you so much. The difficulty of compatibility between the self and fourth density creates a situation, as we were describing of anxiety and stress, and pressure also. Life at this moment can be something of a pressure cooker, and that is intensified all the more when it’s happening on a mass scale, when it’s echoed back from the collective. So, do you have any advice regarding how the seeker can distinguish between what is theirs and what is the collectives, and how to swim in the collective waters?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. As each seeker begins the day, knowing that there is much work, as you would call it, of the physical sense, of the mental sense, and of the spiritual sense awaiting it, it is well to retire into the meditative state and to open the heart in that state to the One Creator; to move within the heart of the being of the seeker that the will of the Creator may be done that day through the seeker in all the actions, in all the thoughts, in all the words; that the seeker becomes a vessel then for the One Creator to move upon the waters of consciousness, both subconscious and conscious realms, so that there is a fuel, shall we say, that the seeker then is powered by, knowing that it has given itself over to the basic reason it exists. The purpose of the incarnation, the destination of each seeker of truth, [is] to open the heart in unconditional love to all and to aid this process by inviting the One Creator to move within the heart, within the mind, within the body, within the experience of the day, that this aid may be given to the seeker to share with all that comes before its notice. In this way, there is an enhancement of the ability of each seeker to find a way to give love where love seems to have no home.

Indeed, each entity has the ability to do this, for each of you have programmed your own incarnational experience to include the ability to enhance your own opening of your heart, sharing of your love, revealing of your vulnerability to those about you, realizing that to be the Fool is to be the wise one, for there is no knowledge of an intellectual sense, or an emotional reaction that can comprehend the immensity of the power of love to heal that which is broken.

Is there a final query at this time?

[Pause]

I am Q’uo. As we seem to have exhausted the queries, we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group. We have been most overjoyed and thrilled to be with you this day. You are always an inspiration to us as you bravely move forward in this dense illusion of separation, knowing, in truth there is no true separation. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We would bid you adieu. Adonai vasu borragus.

