(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument. We greet each of you in love and in light this day, and we are thankful to each of you for inviting us to join you in your process of seeking that which you call the truth, for all of us within the creation join in this great journey and keep each other company upon it.

We would ask, as always, that one small favor that makes it possible for us to speak without reservation, and that is that you will listen to the words that we speak and the concepts that we offer, and take those which have meaning to you at this time and use them in whatever fashion has meaning for you, leaving behind any words or concepts that have no meaning for you at this time. If you will do this for us, we may speak to you with greater clarity, having no fear that we shall be providing any kind of a stumbling block for you. With that understood, may we ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

I have a query, Q’uo. This may be of transient importance, but could you please elaborate on the energetic significance of Notre Dame Cathedral burning down on Holy Monday?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. This great and elegant and powerful edifice that has been so long a portion of your planet’s spiritual legacy is that which symbolized the eternal truths that may have aided so many thousands and millions of people throughout its many centuries of existence, that will endure past the destruction of the physical building that held those aspirants who wish to know more of the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. For all those who mourn the loss of this great dwelling place that was, indeed, an entity in itself, we say to them, and to all entities that the truths that you hold dear in your soul, in your heart, in your spiritual journey, are those truths which will endure any kind of a catastrophe such as that which has taken this building from its earthly place and purpose.

Know, then, that when the structure of certain material things is no longer with you, as your body shall some day also be eliminated, that you and those timeless principles that you hold in common with so many others as the guiding lights of your life, will be as strong as ever and perhaps will burn even more brightly because now there is the realization that what such structural manifestations can give to you will never cease, will never die, though the manifestations may pass away.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question, Q’uo. It’s easy to apply what’s happening to me and wonder that it’s happening to others, but is there something happening right now, a current energy that’s kind of universal in this moment?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. At this time, as you would call it, in the transition of your planet into the fourth density of love and understanding, there are waves of cosmic streamings engulfing your planet in a rhythmic fashion so that there is never a portion of this time that is without a certain kind of vibration of energy that acts upon various individuals in certain ways. For the most part, however, there are entities that are nearing graduation now whose inner sensitivities are such that they are more vulnerable to the energizing and upgrading effects of these cosmic instreamings so that their spiritual journeys, as they have constructed them, from within their own being, become energized in a manner which opens the heart in a more accessible means. That is to say, the opening of the heart becomes more possible for each entity that is sensitized to the variety of vibratory instreamings at this time.

There is the greater possibility that one may be able to channel these energies in a fashion which is congruent with the pre-incarnative plans that each has made that becomes the spiritual path within the incarnation. Thus, if you are open to such acceleration of these instreaming energies, you may be able to focus your own attention upon each portion of your daily experience in a manner which allows you to imbue what you do, and who you seek, and with whom you interact, with the loving vibrations of your heart energies.

This unconditional love can take many forms in that you may find yourself engaged in more meaningful and in-depth conversations concerning one’s feelings, one’s aspirations, one’s doubts, one’s fears, one’s plan for moving into harmony with others, with the planet itself, with one’s own being. Thus, these inner sensitivities can be likened unto the magnifying glass that allows the instreaming energies to become more potent within one’s inner experience and thus becoming reflected outwardly to all about one, and affecting all in the manner in which you, yourself, have been affected.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a follow-up query, Q’uo. I’ve noticed that as the waves of love/light increase, many people are being confronted with the situation where they must use that increased energy to heal and evolve, or they are experiencing physical difficulty, and sometimes a dissolution of the physical complex. It also seems to be happening at the social and political level as well. Will that trend increase, and could you further elaborate on whether or not my observation is correct?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, the cosmic instreamings have a dual purpose. The most salient purpose is that of aiding entities who wish to move forward on their spiritual paths in the opening of the green-ray energy center to be able to do so to make transitions in their own consciousness that then are shared with those about them so that there is a kind of momentum being built in their daily round of activities and experiences that allows a greater expression of this love vibration as a normal part of one’s being and the sharing of that being with others.

The other possibility is that of which you speak. You are correct in your assumption that for entities who are unable to make, shall we say, an opening within their own being to welcome and enjoy these enhanced vibrations of love, there is, then, the critical point of realization that comes before the inner realization of such entities: that is that they must be able to more efficiently process the catalyst from their daily round of activities—realizing it is enhanced in its nature and requires a greater effort upon their part in order to process it—or the greater energies of love and understanding that are entering their mind/body/spirit complexes will begin to burn out the energy receptors and ability to respond.

There is, then, the increase of what you would call the disease or distortions of the mental and physical vehicles that are representations of the entity’s inability, in some fashion, to welcome and enjoy and utilize these energies to process the catalyst of the daily round of activities. Thus, it is a kind of winnowing effect that is occurring, as the harvest begins to welcome those whose hearts are open to produce the fruit of love and the grains of understanding, and to separate those from the chaff, shall we say, that are unable to do this. We do not mean to be degrading to those who are unable to open the heart widely enough to welcome these energies, for they are the Creator attempting to know itself in a fashion which is becoming too much to bear, shall we say, [and] the circuitry of the body complex fails as does that of the mind.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, once again, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a query, Q’uo, please, and it has to do to follow up with the previous query, taking it up to the level of group, or collective, or social opening of the heart on a social level, collective level, and with the same dynamic that you just described applied to the opening of hearts when confronted with the catalyst of others that are suffering, other selves suffering as a group, and that that might help to open the hearts of the collective around them, or such other similar instances, such as natural disasters that cause floods and hurricanes and so on, or fires that are causing distress, and the collective humanity embracing and opening their hearts. Could you speak to that level of opening?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. It is indeed so that the collective consciousness of various groups is also affected by these same energies, in generally the same fashion. There is the need upon those who seek what is called the truth for these energies to be processed in a manner which allows the expansion of consciousness in general, and the opening of the heart in particular. When there is the inability to expand the group consciousness to welcome and enjoy a wider perspective regarding how the feelings, the attitudes, and the responses to others are offered to others, then there is the, shall we say, snapping back of this energy of expansion upon those who cannot welcome it, so that there is a kind of group catharsis or dilemma that is apparent in some fashion that may not be immediately understandable, for it is usually experienced symbolically, so that there is the need upon the part of the individuals within the group consciousness to gather together in a certain way to process that which the group has failed to do as a group.

Thus can, shall we say, some groups or individuals within group consciousness become as exemplars or leaders to show the way to the larger cooperative, or group consciousness, that it might expand its beingness and philosophical foundations, and grow into that which it was not before, so that there is the constant progression and utilization of the cosmic instreamings in a manner which is of benefit to all.

It is oftentimes the case that such individual group subgroups then can aid the larger group to move forward as each entity upon this planet may do for all other entities by engaging in those activities which share love and light with those about it, and thereby enhance the overall experience and opportunity for the sharing of love and light by all entities upon the Earth, for are we not all One? However, there are often cases in which the group energies are not able to expand to the degree necessary in order to maintain the group cohesion and the group experience that has been the history up to the point of being unable to expand further in the journey as a group. Thus, there are those opportunities that are continued to be offered to such a group until there is the dissolution of the group in one form or another as various members of the group find other directions and groups with which to travel this journey of seeking the One, and the heart of the self opening to the One and all.

Is there another query, my sister?

No, thank you. Thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I have a query, Q’uo. Ra has described the mated marriage relationship as it exists on Earth as something akin to mutual slavery, and there are many forms of subtle oppression of self and other self in many relationships. How can we heal the mated relationship so that it better serves positive polarity?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother.

The mated relationship is that relationship which ideally allows each entity within it an equal opportunity to give and to receive the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator to all about the entity and within the relationship from each to the other. When there is constructed in such a relationship, a separation of equalities, shall we say, so that one is seen as lesser than the other, and must obey certain strictures or customs, shall we say, then it is that there is the distortion of the relationship itself and its ability to function as that which enables each to progress as teacher to the other, and as student for the other.

This type of balance is that which allows each entity within the relationship to be free to experience and express itself without the fear of a boundary being crossed that will result in a kind of criticism or ostracism that makes the relationship, in a certain sense, to become closed to the life-giving energies that flow through each entity; for as one is controlled by the other, then the relationship begins to degrade into that which is more negatively oriented in its foundation, so that there is less and less opportunity for either entity to progress in a fashion that is equal to each entity’s potential.

For before the incarnation, each entity incarnating within the third-density illusion has programmed certain lessons that will allow a perception and expression of love and light to inhabit the areas needing attention and learning within the incarnation. These types of programmings are able to enhance each entity’s growth patterns as long as there is the acceptance of each entity by each other entity as being whole and perfect, even though there may be distortions within the mind/body/spirit complex.

Thusly, if there is the perception and the exercising of that perception in ostracism or criticism or degrading in any way whatsoever of one entity by the other, or in some cases, each entity failing to realize the divinity of the other, then the mated relationship fails in its design and becomes an adversary relationship in which there is much doubt, confusion, anger, and dissolution of opportunities.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother, once again. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I have a question. The Confederation describes that we come into this incarnation with a personality shell, they call it. How much of that personality shell is simply a construct, something that’s designed, a collection of bias and programming and gifts and limitations that we create to facilitate learning lessons?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. That which you call the personality shell may be seen as a reflection of what you would call the essence of the soul in one aspect. Each soul is a being of completeness, which has a great deal of experiential data recorded within its significant self as a result of many, many previous incarnations within both the third-density illusion for those who have progressed only to this point thus far, and within other densities as well, for those wanderers who have come to aid the harvest on planet earth.

This great storehouse of experience is utilized in a certain fashion within each incarnation. A certain kind of shall we call framework, or personality shell, is constructed previous to the incarnation so that a variety of aspects of the lessons previously learned may be formed in order that preincarnative lessons for the upcoming incarnation may be entertained and expressed during the incarnation in a manner which will accelerate the spiritual evolution of this particular portion, or personality shell, of the overall soul essence.

Thus, there is the opportunity within the incarnation for this shell to be a distributor of energy, shall we say, a processor of catalyst, an entity of great potential which has a certain range of opportunity provided for it and by it to interact with others in a certain manner that is congruent with the structure of the personality shell. This is a vehicle for consciousness to be able to form itself in a fashion that is efficient in moving the mind/body/spirit complex further along the spiritual journey, or upward along the energy centers, as you may see them.

Thus, this personality shell is an actor upon the stage of life that has its lines and its role constructed for it by the soul essence in order that eventually the soul essence may become what you would call “harvestable” in the third to fourth-density transition now taking place upon your planet. This personality shell, then, is useful as a tool for evolution. Its use is usually dispensed or expended within the incarnation in a manner which is more or less successful in achieving the goal of spiritual growth.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Not at this time. Thank you so much, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?

In keeping with the theme of the personality shell, Q’uo, how does the entity within an incarnation distinguish between the personality shell and the deeper soul identity?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The entity within the incarnation which may be seen as the personality shell may become aware of the deeper levels of its own being through that which you call the meditative state, where there is the seeking for that which is beyond the conscious recognition of the mind/body/spirit complex which has become a personality shell. As this entity becomes aware consciously of the process of evolution, it may utilize those preincarnative lessons to move further along its own spiritual path. As this movement along the spiritual path is achieved, there is the continuing realization that the self which thought it knew who it was, becomes aware that there is more to it than what it knew.

Thus, the process of spiritual growth, intellectual understanding, and emotional acceptance of greater and greater portions of the being allows for this process to accelerate, aided greatly by the processing of catalyst within the meditative state. The meditative state also being most helpful for the self to explore even further and deeper the qualities that it discovers along this spiritual path that are related to itself and are indeed a part of itself. As the entity expands its circle of knowledge, it becomes more and more aware of the immensity of the soul identity that is in closer and closer congruency with the One Infinite Creator which dwells within.

Thus, such a seeker of conscious experience and catalyst in the processing of such, becomes availed of those facets of itself that are sacred, that are holy, that are all-encompassing, that are a portion, and in fact, in totality, the One Infinite Creator. Thus, there is no end to the discoveries of the facets of the self that a personality shell may discover in the spiritual journey. There is, within each entity, then, the possibility of making these discoveries of the enhanced qualities and facets, and energies, and directions of the soul essence that is expressing itself in greater and greater manner as the fourth-density energies continue to enhance this process upon your planetary sphere.

We would ask if there is a follow-up query, my brother?

Thank you for the opportunity, but no thanks.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother.

And we thank each once again for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking this day. As always, we are most gratified to join you, for we learn from you as much as you learn from us, my friends. Your third-density illusion is a great challenge for any entity to undertake. There is so much that is unknown that lies beyond the veil of forgetting, and we are most cheered and feel such great appreciation as each of you fearlessly move forward into the great unknown that, as you come to know it, you see as yourself, and all other selves combined to be the One who is all in all. Blessings on your journeys, my friends. We are those of Q’uo, and we shall leave you now in the love and light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.

