(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and greet each of you in love and in light this afternoon. We are most pleased to be asked to join your circle of seeking this day. We are aware that many here are not familiar with the channeling process, so we would begin by letting you know that we are not ultimate authorities. We are as your brothers and sisters who walk the same path as do you. We have moved, shall we say, a few steps further upon this path, and it is our service to others that moves us further along this path as it does you. Thus, your asking us to join your circle of seeking gives us an opportunity to be of service, and if you would do us a small favor, we would be able to serve you better: that is, when we speak in answer to your questions, any word or thought that does not resonate in harmony with you, leave it aside without a second thought, for we would not be stumbling blocks upon your path in any way whatsoever. Take those words and thoughts which have meaning to you and use them as you will. If you will do us this favor, then we may speak freely to you.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin.

I have a question. Thank you. This question is from both myself and someone you’ve heard from before named Kyle. Kyle and I have been working together with others remotely in different geographical locations, as we greatly desire to tune, condition, and prepare ourselves for channeling, or for supporting channeled messages from the Confederation. Can you please comment on how this process is impacted whether we are in person vs. in different geographical locations? Is it possible to successfully channel messages from the Confederation with people in more than one location?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We look upon this query with some hesitation, for it is not our desire to infringe upon the freewill of entities by advising in a specific situation. Thus, we shall be somewhat general in our reply. It is to our best knowledge a task well done to be in the same situation or location, as you are attempting to be of service to others by offering yourselves in the process of channeling information from sources such as are we.

However, this is not a simple situation in which to participate, for there are various kinds of entities that one may make a contact with upon the inner planes through the meditative state approaching that which you call the trance state. Some are personal guides which may be accessed and channeled from one entity to another in different locations, for the personal guide is that source of energies and information that is what you may say local, or of your Earth sphere.

The conditions for such a situation are different for those such as are we, being native to other realms of experience and visiting your sphere as, shall we say, guests invited by entities such as yourselves. In this instance, it would be far more difficult, shall we say, to be able to access and process the information which we offer if there was a variety of locations, more than one.

This also is subject to alteration if the entities partaking in the channeling process are adept at this process, so that they may exceed the local boundaries of time and space and become able to perceive the unity of the time and space facets of their channeling process. We hope that this is enough information to give you some indication of your situation.

Is there a further query at this time?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I have a question about the red ray. Is there the possibility of blocking its flow in any way, say by fear of, or rather a threat to survival?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Normally speaking, the red ray is a ray which does not have an variable nature of expression. That is to say, it is normally fixed in its quality of beingness, that being the survival of the entity and the reproduction of entities. However, it is, indeed, quite possible to block the red ray in either of these expressions of its basic nature. The blockage is most usually accomplished by the entity in its conscious nature in which there would be seen a threat to the well-being of the physical or mental complexes of the entity. This fear consciousness, then, can, indeed, render the red ray blocked in a fashion which prohibits further movement of the prana, or the love and light of the One Creator, through its energy center.

Is there a further query, my brother?

What about in the instance of an entity who commits suicide. Have they blocked their red ray energy center?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Such an entity would be feeling a kind of fear of being alive, of fearing the consequences of its experience that has moved in a most disturbing fashion through the entity, for some period of what you call time. Thus, the entity that would be, shall we say, driven by its own fears of failure, or fear of not being able to continue to process the growing catalyst in its life pattern, would be blocking all energy centers at once, for this type of experience is one which includes the very nature of the spiritual being of this entity. Thus, the red ray would be blocked firstly, then the others in turn, seriatim.

Is there a further query, my brother?

One more red ray related question, and then I’ll open it back up to the circle to see if anybody has questions. In the Ra contact, the questioner is asking about the balancing of the energy centers, and Ra begins—Ra moves through the energy centers starting with red ray, and they say: “The first balancing is of the Malkuth or Earth vibratory energy complex, called the red-ray complex, and understanding and acceptance of this energy is fundamental.” Is there any way to elaborate on what Ra means by “an understanding and acceptance of this energy is fundamental?”

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The Malkuth is the Earth realm in which the spiritual energies are fed into the mind/body/spirit complex firstly through the red ray in order that this elemental body, which is without form, may be energized in a manner which allows it to have a beinginess within the Earth realms. The potentiated nature of the red ray at that time, then, becomes activated so that it becomes what you may call the foundation upon which the rest of the energy centers’ activities may be based. It is that which is fundamental to all other actions and intelligence that will emanate from each succeeding energy center.

Is there another query at this time?

I have a question, Q’uo. Could you expound on the right use and purpose of red-ray attraction between entities for positive polarization?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The red-ray activation is that which occurs between two entities who are sexually polarized in a manner which is, shall we say, available for interaction, or interplay. This meaning that the attraction is that which finds a polar opposite, whether the entity be biologically male or biologically female. The physical attraction is that which is congruent with each entity’s individual and unique natures. This operates without conscious control. This operates more accurately as an unconscious reflection of the nature of each entity’s basic quality of sexual polarity.

Thus, there is, as a result of this attraction, a kind of fellowship of a basic nature that becomes the foundation of an addition to this basic quality, as the interaction between the two entities commences and continues. Therefore, each entity is offered the opportunity to be of service to the other, in one manner or another, as it begins with the sexual attraction being added unto by the intense red and orange-ray quality of individual beingness, moving further along to the yellow ray, that places each entity within the group situation of the mated pair ideally. However, this is always due and processed by individual freewill. Thus, the basic pattern of energizing and promoting the relationship value of the two entities is that which is the propelling function of the red-ray excitation.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, Q’uo. Thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I’ve got a question, Q’uo, and it is totally unrelated to red-ray energy. Perhaps a broader question on this sphere in what we call the year 2012, many earthlings were expecting what we refer to as “the Mayan Prophesies,” which could have led to a mass harvesting of souls. It is my understanding that humanity was not ready for that to take place at that time. It is my further understanding that there were a number of spheres sent to protect the Earth, in mass, from such a comprehensive harvesting.

So, my question is twofold: First, is my understanding correct? Second, is if those spheres were generated by the collective consciousness of humanity, or were they sent by the One Infinite Creator, or were they simply sent by the Confederation to intervene independent of the One Infinite Creator. Thank you.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. To begin, the energies of transformation that were widely perceived to be available in the year of 2012 were energies that were available on a variety of levels of being. These energies were potentially able to be manifested, not only upon the inner planes where they were, indeed, manifested, but also upon the outer planes of your third-density illusion.

Many prophesies and channeling, shall we say, focused upon these energies in many and sundry ways; some describing them in one way, others in another way. This is to be expected when there are various types of channels with various abilities functioning in the perception of that which exists upon the inner planes as possibility/probably vortices. There are always many different ways in which any prophesied potentiality may be perceived, or also, may be manifested, for as action takes place upon one level of the planetary consciousness, there is oftentimes a changing of the possibility/probably vortices.

The action of transformation was not so much a mass consciousness on the external level that was to be experienced, but a kind of inner transformative experience of various seekers of truth, as you may call them, that would, through being sensitive to the vibrations streaming in from the cosmic sources, and utilized these vibrations in a manner much like you would call the “rising of the kundalini” so that there would be, among those who were ready, a transformational experience that would allow them to further express this cosmic energy in their life patterns. This would become likened unto a fertilizing of the mass consciousness of humanity in order that the One Infinite Creator which exists within each entity and iota of creation might find a fuller manifestation of its beingness within the group mind of the Earth consciousness.

This was, indeed, experienced by many who were available to such energy shifts. However, those who were expecting to see a mass transmigration of souls into the higher realms at that time were acting upon the information which had been less than perfectly perceived by various channels and contacts around your globe.

Is there a further query, my brother?

So it sound to me like the fertilization, as you call it, of certain individuals to raise their vibration, took place, and as the result of that, is that now currently in the year we call 2019, what is responsible for this time and third-density Earth history being unlike any other time in our third-density illusion? Thank you.

I am Q’uo and we thank you for your query, and for your summation, which, in our means of estimation is quite correct. There is a continuation of these energies that are now engulfing your planetary sphere, for the clock of the cosmic nature has begun to strike in an ever more forceful manner, to call in the types of transformations that are possible within individuals at this time. There is the interaction of much of the positive and negative polarities upon your planetary sphere so that there is much confusion, much doubt, much difficulty, and much awaiting of that which is to come without a clear perception of how these cosmic instreamings may have their effect upon entities and upon your planetary sphere itself. Your planet has made the transition into the fourth density of love and understanding and its population is slowly being harvested in the positive and the negative senses, so that each entity which now passes through what you would call the death transition is offered an opportunity to move through a portal of light, where the light will gauge the ability of the entity to withstand the impact of the fourth-density vibrations, this measured by the violet ray of each entity’s energy centers.

Thus, the transition into the fourth density is underway and shall continue for an unknown period of your time, for there is, as we have said, much confusion upon your planet at this time. However, we would suggest to each seeker of truth that as you send love and light to your planetary sphere and its population, that love and light works in a resonant fashion with the love and light of the One Creator which exists within each entity, so that whatever possibility any entity has for positive harvestability is enhanced by this resonant quality.

Thus, as entities such as yourselves hold meditations sending love and light to the planetary population, you enhance the opportunity for this harvest to be completed and to be able to be perceived by each entity upon the planet. This is the great hope of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator. However, we, as you, stand upon the sidelines watching the play unfold. Eventually, the play will reach its final act, and the One Creator will be found in all.

Is there another query at this time?

That is all, thank you.

I am Q’uo, again we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, so, it’s my understanding that essentially, we’re creating the path to the fourth dimension in the way of fertilization now. I guess just in the way of perception on what you know, for me, in the way of love and light I carry through the day, and the way I live I sometimes see things as playing out as like a movie outside of myself. And so I’m asking, with what you’re saying, and the way of us getting together as collectives and meditating for the world, is that we’re carrying them closer to the violet light, which to me is part of us, most of us. Is it something that, to me, that we’re all called to here together today to know each other for something of that nature, to work towards a higher understanding of vibration and how we can do that together?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, each entity within this circle of seeking as well as so many, many others of like mind, body and spirit, has within it, the capacity to contact that quality of love and light within each being which is the One Infinite Creator, and to send forth that love and light to the planetary population in a fashion which may inspire more seeking of the truth, as you may call it, by each entity. The seeking of this truth is the seeking of that which is the unity of all creation, expressed through the open heart that feels unconditional love for all of the creation. Each entity, in each iota of the creation, being seen as the other self, being seen as the Creator, being seen as the perfection of all creation within the third-density illusion.

Thus, each moment, each day, each diurnal period that you experience this love and light and send it forth to the planetary whole, is an opportunity to expand upon the possibilities of the harvest being completed in the positively and the negatively oriented senses, so that this planet may offer the fruit of its beingness to the One Creator at the level of the fourth density of love and understanding.

Is there a further query, at this time?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, it is our understanding that each new generation that is born on Earth will express abilities and understanding that exceeds the boundaries of consensus reality and progressively lead us forward toward fourth density. When the new generation is at the stage of childhood, how do we adults help to inspire these children and help them to identify and develop their gifts?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. First of all, we would suggest that each person see each new child not just as a child of a mother and a father of third density, but as a child of the One Infinite Creator, for in truth, that is the nature of each child and each entity upon this planet. Seeing each child as the Creator, look then to how the Creator within all may be apprehended and taught to this child as a means of daily inspiration and recognition of the Creator that exists in all. Find a manner in which you may share your love of the One Creator with this child upon a regular basis, just as you learn arithmetic and reading in your schooling system, teach them the oneness of all creation, teach them the unconditional love of all creation, teach them the light of truth of all creation, teach them the interrelatedness of all entities within the one creation, and most especially at this time, upon the planet you call Earth.

Make this the foundation of every child’s education, and then each child shall be rich in the knowledge of that which is. For we are all one: we are one with each child, we are one with each other, we are one with the father, we are one with the mother, we are one with the planet—we are one.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Thank you so much. Not on that one, no.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?

Q’uo, Ra describes some contamination in the collective mind, and they say specifically, “Thus, there is some, shall we say, contamination even of the sexual, this showing mostly in your own culture as the various pre-dispositions to adversary relationships, or, as you call them, marriages, rather than the free giving, one to another, in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.”

Can you describe the difference between marriage, as it’s conventionally experienced on this planet, and the free giving that Ra is describing?

I am Q’uo and we believe that we understand your query, my brother. Please correct us if we are not correct. The contamination that has existed from time immemorial upon your planetary sphere for the sexual energy transfers between the married couple is a product of negatively oriented entities wishing to plant the seeds of separation within the population of this planetary sphere. These types of seeds of separation then, have continued to grow throughout the history of your planet so that the sexual energy transfer has been marred, or contaminated, as those of Ra said, so that it is seen in many different ways to be that which is desirable, that which is valuable, that which is saleable, that which is to be controlled, that which is dirty, that which is to be avoided. Thus, there is confusion that has existed for many thousands of your years regarding this type of sexual energy transfer.

The marriages, therefore, of those who are partaking in this sexual energy transfer have had to deal with the mixture of qualities that have been adjudged to be a portion of such sexual energy transfers. Few there are who have been able to look past these qualities of doubt and disgust to see that there is, within this energy transfer, the perfect beauty of unity, the sacred darkness and the wand of light moving in such a fashion as to create the opportunity for life to spring forth from the One Infinite Creator into the third-density illusion, thus awakening in both entities the opportunity to be of service to the new being. Whether or not entities are of the same biological nature, this same type of sexual energy transfer may also be seen to offer to each entity the bonding of a nature which is most holy in its grounding of beingness, so that there is also offered to each entity the type of service to others that the mated pair can experience and express in the daily round of activities, making holy each activity that is engaged in so that there is the expression of the One Creator, the love, the light and the unity within each activity that is undertaken by such entities. There is always the opportunity to see past the contamination so that there is a purity that is discovered beyond all contamination, beyond all confusion, beyond all doubt. For each of you contains within you the One Creator that can be accessed and experienced and expressed in a pure sense in every facet of your being as you move upward along the energy centers, and express each energy center’s quality in a way in which the energy exchange is pure and perfect and personal.

At this time, we would again thank each of you for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking today. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We shall now take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave each of you as we found you, in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth in peace and in power, in joy and in praise for all is one. Adonai vasu borrogus

