(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and greet each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator of which we are all a part. It is our great privilege and pleasure to be with you this afternoon as you enter into this sacred space in order to find out more of that which you call seeking the truth. We are always honored to be asked to join your circle in this seeking, for we are but your brothers and sisters who have traveled further upon the same path that you are on, and we wish, as a part of our service to the One Creator, to aid you in your journey in whatever way we may do without infringing upon your freewill.

If you would so us one small favor, as always, we may then speak freely this day. That favor is to take those words and concepts which we speak to you and use them as you will, discarding any which do not ring of truth to you, for we would not be a stumbling block on your journey of seeking. If you would do us this small favor, then we may speak as we will.

At this time, we shall begin by asking if there is a query we may attempt to speak to [in order] to begin.

Greetings Q’uo. Could you tell us how best to heal ourselves from grief?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Grief is a quality that is inescapable within your third-density illusion, for within this illusion, it is not possible to see the complete unity of thought that binds all things and all people together as one being, the One Infinite Creator. The veil of forgetting does its work well as it hides from you the completeness of all beings, the wholeness of all beings, the appropriateness of all experience that is to be had within your third-density illusion.

Thus, this veil presents challenges to you that would not be possible without it, challenges such as that which you speak: the feeling of grief for the loss or the injuring of some entity, some quality, some concept, that you hold dear to you in your lives. That you feel this unity with some quality or entity that is now in doubt, in suffering, in pain, or perhaps about to leave the incarnation. There is the feeling within the open heart that this loss, this damage, this defect, is sad, is not to be desired, that there is not wholeness within it, that there is not the way through it to a brighter experience, to a more fulfilling experience of unity and love with this quantity or quality or entity.

This is as it must be, my brother, within your illusion, for to identify in such a compassionate and powerful way is a means by which you learn to appreciate the uniqueness of each experience which is yours to share within this illusion. Thusly do you immerse yourself in the nature of the illusion which is limitation, and the inability to expand the perception to include the wholeness of the creation within every individual part of the creation, no matter how small or seemingly insignificant. Thus, within your own heart, as you look within to see how this love has grown within you and has identified with that with which you feel grief, you then see that larger view, that panoramic view, the universal view that places each of us and each of our experiences within the love and the light and the unity of the One Infinite Creator. We look beyond the illusion in order to see the extending of each entity and quality into infinity so that there is truly no end to that which seems so limited. There is no true suffering that endures past the limits of this illusion, for beyond this illusion, there is no suffering. In truth, each of us has an identity and experience congruent with infinity, for we are, each of us, a portion of the One Infinite Creator.

Thusly, my brother, we would recommend to you that when you feel grief for any person, thing or concept, you expand your vision of that person, thing or concept until it moves far beyond the limits of this illusion and fills your heart, your mind and your spirit with the truth of the unity of all creation, for in this truth there is no end to any portion of the One Infinite Creator.

Is there another query, my brother?

Yes, Q’uo. Could you talk about authenticity and self-disclosure as it relates to opening the heart?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The terms “authenticity” and “full disclosure” are indeed quite relevant in the process of opening one’s heart, for in order for full disclosure of one’s beingness as the One Creator to be able to be felt by the self, the self must know itself in its authenticity. That is to say, the truth of the self is as we have spoken before in the previous query, far more than what seems to be such a limited creature here within the third-density illusion. The authenticity of each seeker of truth is that which is a spark of the great fire of the One Infinite Creator that burns as each sun in the sky seen as stars at night and suns in the day, each entity is intimately connected with the intelligent infinity that is the One Creator with the intelligent energy that is the formation of this universe in which we all live and dwell and have our being.

Thus, as in meditation and in contemplation in an action you discover this authentic self that is you at the heart of your being. You are able to utilize this realization in order to fully disclose the love and the light that is within you, that flow forth freely from you when you are able to realize who you are in truth, that you are but in this illusion a limited portion of the infinity of yourself that exists beyond all illusion, for authentically you are the love and the light and the unity of the One Infinite Creator. There is nothing else in the universe but these qualities formed in such and such a way in many dimensions of being in order to allow the One Creator to experience itself in ways which are more intense in variety and more pure in quality so that it may know itself more fully through each experience which you, as a portion of it, may have in any density or illusion of this infinite creation in which you dwell.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you once again, my brother.

Is there another query at this time?

I have a question, Q’uo. As human beings, sexuality is a strong force that is in our bodies. Is there something to say about the practice of celibacy in directing spiritual sexual energy towards a different end?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The sexual energy, or the intelligent energy or that which has been called prana, moves through each being in a series of stages or steps that may be seen as the energy centers, or the chakras, of the human body. This energy may be utilized in any of a number of fashions and functions for each center of energy or chakra is able to expand the range of expression of this energy so that the entity experiencing this transmission of intelligent energy, may be able to utilize it in its progression towards unity with the One Creator.

However, in some instances, various seeker of truth have found value in becoming what you call celibate—that is, that they chose not to express the sharing of the sexual energies with another in order to be able to utilize this energy as a magnifier, shall we say, of the personal journey of seeking that each is engaged upon in this illusion, and indeed, beyond this illusion, until there is total unification with the One Creator.

However, we find that this type of celibacy as you have called it has its limits, so that there is the need for one practicing this celibacy of the sexual energy experience to see the ability of the self to perform both that which is that directed towards another internally, and that which is directed towards the self, also internally, so that one contains both the quality of the other self with whom sexual energy exchanges is not desired, and the qualities of the self, thus becoming two-pronged, shall we say, in the ability to absorb and then transmit, and then absorb again, the sexual energy that is contained within the single being.

This containing of the sexual energy, then, is focused in a manner which seeks to find its fulfillment internally at each energy center or chakra, as the energy moves up the spine in what is called the rising of the Kundalini. This experience of celibacy, then, is that which seeks to realize the exchanging of energies with another in a manner in which the self and the One Creator are the two entities so experiencing the exchanging of sexual energy. This is a practice which takes a great deal of discipline, and a use over a prolonged period of time in order to realize that which is of a dual nature in most cases.

Thus, the celibate seeker of truth is able to achieve the same result as the seeker that partakes in the sexual energy transmission with another being, the mated partner in most cases. These types of sharing of sexual energy have, as the basic goal, the rising of the kundalini so that the intelligent energy from the sun bodies that enters through the base chakra may eventually mate with the energies of the Creator which exist within each entity within the violet-ray chakra, or the Polaris of the self, as those of Ra have called it.

Thus, whether one is celibate or not, there is the joining of these energies and the rising of the Kundalini so that there is a manifestation of unification that eventually allows the seeker of truth to be able to contact Intelligent Infinity, or the One Infinite Creator within the violet-ray energy center, and feel the sacred nature of this eventual union of the two energies.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother.

Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I have a follow-up to that one. Would you please share some on how our breath helps us recharge prana and any specific ways that we can use our breath to make that more efficient?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, breath is life and life is breath, for each is a basic portion of the One Infinite Creator. Contained within your breath is the essence of life, for as the body is energized by the prana, or intelligent energy of the One Creator, the breath is the expression of that intelligent energy in the mundane world so that the mind, the body, and the spirit, my have its beingness as an entity within the third-density illusion.

The breath that you inhale and exhale on a daily basis is a living portion of the One Creator that gives life to you and moves life through you, for the breath contains the vitality of all beingness that is created by the One Creator in the infinite creation. Thus, as you breathe, you inculcate or infuse your entire being, from your body, your mind and your spirit with the vitality which is of the One Creator. Thusly, as you breath more and more deeply, perhaps holding that breath at the exhale and the inhale, until you feel a natural release to again enter into the rhythm of the intake and excellation of the breath, you may begin to feel an activation of the indigo and violet ray energy centers so that as you begin to participate in the rhythm of the breathing and the holding of the breath and the releasing of the breath, you are allowing the life-giving forces within the breath to infuse or imbue your body with energy that is intelligent and which invigorates each cell of your body to be able to do its work more and more efficiently, thus allowing the body itself to become more enlivened and to partake in the vitality of the One Creator more fully as you rhythmically inhale, hold the breath, exhale, hold the breath, and so forth.

This type of breathing is also enhanced by the focusing of the inner eye upon the brow chakra so that the magical nature of the indigo ray energy center may be able to help you create what you would call changes in your own consciousness, so that you become more and more aware of the One in each portion of your experience as you carry with you a more and more vital expression of that One within your mind, within your body, and within your spirit. Thusly, so imbued with life, you are able to perceive more clearly that which is the One Creator about you in every form and feature of the third-density illusion.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you so much, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister.

Is there another query at this time?

I have a follow-up question, Q’uo. This was regarding David’s previous question on celibacy. Is developing the two prongs at each energy center a matter of balancing the masculine and feminine principles in oneself?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. This is precisely correct, my brother, for within each being exists the completeness of the Creator—both that which is masculine, that which reaches, and that which is feminine, that which awaits the reaching. Each entity is a combination of both these forces or features of the nature of creation, for all of creation is held in place, shall we say, by the polarized charges of the positive and the negative, the male and the female. Thus, the entity which is able to harness the balanced mating of these two qualities within its own being, is able to raise its center of consciousness from one chakra, or energy center, to another through the efficient processing of the catalyst of the daily round of activities that accumulate according to the activation and balance of each energy center.

Thus, as these qualities of male and female begin to be expressed in a balanced fashion within each energy center, then each center is activated and balanced and able to channel the intelligent energy of the One Creator more efficiently as it continues to expand its awareness of catalyst to each ascending energy center. Thusly, each seeker of truth becomes able to utilize any catalyst which comes before its notice in higher and higher levels of expression, so that eventually the realization of the One takes place within the seeker of truth’s indigo and violet ray energy centers.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Yes, Q’uo. Might bisexuality be a consequence of this balancing of masculine and feminine rising the Kundalini?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query. My brother, you are once again correct, for as an entity is able to interiorize this process of the balancing of the male and the female qualities within its own being, it is possible either to share these energy exchanges with another, with a mate, shall we say, or to interiorize these balancing of the energies within the self, and become, what you would call the bisexual entity, able to experience certain features of the intelligent energy moving through its own being in a manner which accelerates personal growth through the energy centers, so that eventual unity with the One is achieved. This is done, as you are aware, most usually in the mated relationship, for it is easier, shall we say for entities to utilize the mated relationship in order to process catalyst that each entity encounters in its own daily round of activities.

However, throughout all ages of seeking there have been many who have been able to make use of the balancing of the male and female portions of their own being in a singular sense so that the solitude becomes that which is utilized within the personal seeking of such an entity.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and again we thank you, my brother.

We would ask if there would be one final query at this time?

Q’uo, to seek some clarification of the response that you just gave: I might be misinterpreting, but it sounded as though you were referring to what I would understand as asexuality, in which a person does not seek any sexual partners, versus bisexuality, which is a person who would find themselves sexually attracted to both male and female partners. Could you clarify?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. It was our intention to attempt to combine both that which you call the bisexuality, with that which you call the asexuality. However, it was unclear in our response as to our intention in this direction. The bisexual entity then, would be able to utilize the male and female qualities within its own being in order to find the balance that is usually achieved in the mated relationship with another. The asexual being, however, is that which contains its own sexuality in an interior sense as well, but does not seek, in any more direct way to express or experience the positive and negative or the male and female qualities of its sexuality, either with another or with the self. Thus the asexual entity is that which is unused to the expression of sexual energies in any fashion within the being, or outside the being, but moves itself in a conscious fashion through the energy centers so that there is the realization of the nature of each energy center and the expression of those energies through the being’s own activities in the daily round of experience. The sexual nature of these experiences is therefore not a prominent feature within such an entity.

Is there a follow-up query, my brother?

No, thank you, that was very clear.

I am Q’uo and again, we thank you, my brother.

At this time, we would thank each present for allowing us to join your circle of seeking this day. We are always honored to do so, and we appreciate the fastidiousness with which each entity present has been able to prepare itself for joining its seeking within this circle this day. Your desire to be of service to others is most inspiring to us, and we cannot thank you enough for your sharing with us the nature of your own being, as we hope we have been able to do with you concerning our desire to be of service as well.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each as always, in the One Infinite love and light of the One Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends, Adonai vasu borragus.

