(Jim channeling)

[Tape starts] …for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking this afternoon. We are honored, as always, to be asked to join you, for your hearts are pure and your desire is clear, you wish to know in order to serve. We, as always, remind you that we are but your brothers and sisters who have moved somewhat further along the same path that you travel. We are not ultimate authorities but are happy to share what we have learned on our journey with you, if you will simply take that which we offer you and use it as you will, discarding any thoughts or words that do not serve you well. In this way, we may speak without hindrance, without causing a stumbling block to you. Therefore, at this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin.

Q’uo, this question comes from Christine, who writes: “There are various ways that people may be impaired, handicapped or limited by what seem like purely material causes—things like lead poisoning, or other pollutants that affect body and mind. For those who have seemingly been prevented from manifesting their full potential, true nature, and true will due to such means, how does the harvest work for them? Due to circumstances seemingly out of their control, many humans are unwittingly under an influence that does not allow them to shine their true light as they would be able to in a natural situation.”

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Many entities that have had numerous incarnations within this third-density illusion have completed a significant portion of their journey into the heart of themselves that has as its purpose the opening of the heart in unconditional love to all those about one. There are various roads that lead to the heart of the self. Some incarnations travel one road, another travels a different road, and yet all, at some point, arrive at their destination, so that within each incarnation, there is seen to be a kind of quality of beingness that is activated by each incarnation’s contribution to the whole of the being, to the soul of the self, so that the overall program of lessons and prophesies that are given for the self by preincarnative choices, may be seen to eventually, in a kind of puzzle fashion, so that each incarnation may contribute its part to the completeness of the puzzle that is the desire of the entity to open the self and the heart in unconditional love.

In each incarnation there will be seeming hindrances or difficulties that provide each entity with the challenge that must be dealt with in some fashion in order to make the lesson apparent to expose the purpose of the incarnation so that the piece of the puzzle of each incarnation may thus be achieved and made a part of the conglomerate wholeness of the being.

Incarnations which seem to offer hindrances, as have been mentioned in the question, are those incarnations which are not as obvious to the outward eye, or even the inward seeking eye of the entity itself, in discovering the purpose of the hindrance, the role that such a hindrance can play in achieving the final portion or piece of the puzzle that will then become that which allows the opening of the heart in complete and unconditional love for all about one.

Whether it be physical limitation of non-movement of a limb, of the seeming limitation of the mental process that is able to apprehend the nature of the incarnation, whether it is genetic defects that seem to offer the blockage of any effort in a certain area, all of these are portions of preincarnative plans that have been made by the entity previous to the incarnation that will allow the progress as the difficulty in some fashion is dealt with successfully; for there are no mistakes within any incarnation with any preincarnative choice, within any entity, with any examination or exhibit of certain limitations, so that each entity then provides itself with the opportunities that when fully or partially achieved, become a portion of the soul’s progress through the third-density illusion.

Thus, all learn that which is meant to be learned when there is the focusing upon that quality of hindrance or opportunity or combination thereof, in each incarnation, so that there is the blooming of the flower, the opening of the heart, the exposing of the soul to all the influences that can aid it in its evolutionary progress through mind, body and spirit.

Is there another query at this time?

Not in follow-up to that one. Thank you, Q’uo.

Q’uo, I have a query. Someone has [what turns out to be] a follow-up, though it began as a stand-alone question. “If there are entities who incarnate and through any means, either by choice or by medical condition or other means, develop personality attributes that are negative, or hindering of self and others around that self, could that be considered somewhat along the same lines as someone with an actual visible handicap, because such a person might behave in certain ways that will focus those around that person to make a choice toward compassion and love in a situation, or toward even that person who is behaving possibly negatively or harmfully even? Could that be somewhat similar that it serves the greatest purpose of all of opening love within each soul that comes into contact with that person and their behavior, or are there other purposes that you could tell us about relating to that?”

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that, indeed, there is in each entity a kind of programming that may partake of what you may call a kind of group consciousness, or a family of beingness that decides to incarnate as a group, and each to contribute a certain portion of the overall goals of the family or spiritual group. Some may choose to play the devil’s advocate, shall we say, and provide the difficult catalyst that makes it necessary to look upon what is the nature of this catalyst. Is it truly evil? Is it evocative of questions? Can it provide inspiration of a certain nature that allows this seeming negative being and behavior to inspire in others the opposite, that which is unconditional love, that which is giving, that which is opening of the heart in complete freedom of being, so that the loving nature flows as freely as does the breath from the lungs.

Each entity, whether before incarnation, or during incarnation, can adjust these programmings in a certain fashion after there has been the manifestation of that which was chosen, either before the incarnation, or during the incarnation, as a kind of impetus or stimulus to spur those about one in a direction which is desire by each entity to be traveled. Thus, each person within such a spiritual grouping plays a certain role that changes from incarnation to incarnation, so that in the overall sense when all roles and stimuli are counted and put together in a fashion which allows the purpose of each to be realized, there is the learning of that which was desired by each entity before the incarnation began.

Therefore, there is, in many instances these types of groupings that work from incarnation to incarnation, with the roles changing from one incarnation to another, so that all eventually learn that which each wishes to learn, and all wish to learn as a group. Thus, some learn more quickly, some more slowly, yet all learn that which was desired.

Is there a further query, my sister?

Is everyone in ones’ life part of a soul family, or are there others that are only perhaps peripherally connected to play those roles? Thank you.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. There is for each entity a grouping of entities that has as its basis the first beginnings within the third-density illusion to form that which is seen as a spiritual grouping, that may have other tendencies or contact with other spiritual groups, so that there can be an intermingling of groupings over a period of time and incarnations, so that there is, for each entity within the group, and for each group, a continuing expanding experience that reaches further and further into the realms of the third-density illusion, so that there is the opportunity to use the talents and experiences of each entity and various groupings to enhance the experience of all.

Thus, there is a continuing blending of energies and entities and groupings so that these groupings and entities are able to express that which they see before the incarnation to be the necessity of the upcoming incarnation in order for progress to continue to be made in the evolutionary process of the evolution of mind, body and spirit. Thus, each entity, then, plays a role which changes with each incarnation and expands its influence so that there is more and more opportunity to blend the energies of all within the groups and of various groups that are tangentially related, each to the other.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, what is the best way for an individual to respond in love to a situation that would normally promote anger?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Within the relationships that are found in each entity’s third-density experience, there is a variety of types of catalyst that is provided by the many entities that form the more or less tight groupings that move through a certain portion of each incarnation together. When there is a difficulty that is obvious to one entity that may be observed to be created by another entity, it is well, in each case, to begin a kind of communication with the heart being the foundation of the communication, asking if one is correctly perceiving what one believes is occurring with the other entity that is providing the difficult catalyst, without accusation, without blame, asking from the heart, “Do I correctly perceive what I feel I perceive? Or is there another way that you can explain to me how I am experiencing what I feel I am experiencing?”

If one may enter into this kind of communication with any other entity during the incarnation, when there is difficult with such an entity, there is, then, seen the opportunity to move into the heart which is obviously open, for each entity thus removing the difficult experience in its objective realm, taking it to the realm of what the emotions, the heart, the beingness of one has experienced, asking them if this is what is perceived by the other, so that the communication may continue in this fashion to unravel the snare or snarl of mixed emotions, mixed impressions, mixed words and meanings, thereby offering to each the opportunity to continue to open the heart in unconditional love, each to the other.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, is true polytheism—the belief in many gods, each controlling or directing a facet of the creation—a stumbling block to the understanding of the unity of all things?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. For some entities, this may, indeed, be true. For other entities this may be a portion of a path in which the many become seen as moving into shared regions of experience and, shall we say, provenance of expression of qualities, thus giving those worshipping such entities a larger point of view so that there is seen to be a conglomeration of qualities of each being that may be shared by more than one being so that this path of conglomeration or addition to each theistic being more qualities, thus eventually reaching the unity of all theistic beings in the expression of oneness, so that what was seen as various kinds of gods, may be seen as facets of a jewel that reflect portions of the unity of the One Infinite Creator.

However, this is not a path which is traveled by all which have the polytheistic view of the creation, for many who have this view are so entrenched in the view that they gain from those who remain with that view that they, too, hold. Therefore, being a kind of priest of a certain god, then, would require that those who follow that god remain true to their strict apprehension of the unique qualities of that god. However, there are, within each type of religious expression, those entities which, by nature, have some kind of intuition within their own being that leads them to the conclusion that there is another path to travel that is more inclusive and less exclusive than that which is promulgated by those who are priests and who have, what you may call, the rule over those who are the followers.

Is there another query, my brother?

Ra says that the service of the self “requires an ever-expanding use of the energies of others for manipulation to the benefit of the self with distortion toward power.” 1 Knowing that negative entities block their orange and yellow rays, I’m wondering if they block their own centers and then, so to speak, steal the energies of others selves to use as substitution for their own blocked power? Does it work that way?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that in many instances this is the means by which negatively oriented entities continue to utilize the energies of others in order to serve the self, for if the self is seen in a certain fashion that requires a supply of obedience, or admiration, shall we say, in order to learn how to do this for the self, then the other self requiring the obedience and admiration then is able to utilize the energies of those about one, or about it, as it provides this kind of example to those who are its followers, shall we say.

Thus, in such a sense of negative expression of one’s own beingness, the blocked nature of the orange and yellow rays is seen as a means by which others may learn to do the same for themselves, learning thereby how to polarize in the negative sense of manipulation and control, so that there is more and more of this energy of others that is necessary in order to continue to exert these energies over a growing band of followers, shall we say.

Is there a further query, my brother?

So the negative structure seems to require new recruits on a regular basis to provide new power that is then funneled upward, is that correct?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother, and this is, indeed, correct. For the negatively oriented entity pursues the path of that which is not, which is separation, domination and control. This path requires an ever-expanding contribution of energies from others willing to be dominated and controlled in order that they may learn themselves how to so dominate and control yet others.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Not on that line, thanks so much, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Ra says: “Firstly the mind must be known to itself. This is perhaps the most demanding part of healing work. If the mind knows itself then the most important aspect of healing has occurred, for consciousness is the microcosm of the Law of One.” 2 Can you elaborate on how consciousness is the microcosm of the Law of One?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The Law of One says simply that all things, all beings, all is One, One Infinite Creator, Intelligent Infinity, that which is all that is. Consciousness is a portion of the One Infinite Creator that becomes enabled, or created, when the universes begins to take shape as the One Infinite Creator and through free will creates the Logos or Love, which creates Light, which then condenses into the creation that is made of consciousness.

Thus, the consciousness comes from the One Infinite Creator’s unity. As each entity perceives its own consciousness, then, it discovers that it is related to all other entities through this consciousness through its various levels of consciousness within its own being that move through the roots of the tree of mind into the subconscious, into the planetary consciousness, into racial consciousness, into cosmic consciousness, into the consciousness of all that is, all that is created.

Thus, if each entity begins to examine its own consciousness, then, it discovers that it is as related to the One Infinite Creator as is any other entity or any other portion of the One Infinite Creation. Thus, to know the consciousness of the self is to know, in microcosm, that which is in macrocosm. Thus, the One Infinite Creator knows itself in each iota of beingness of its creation, and each iota of beingness of the creation knows itself as the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a final query at this time?

Kirilina, the Bulgarian translator, sends this question in. She says: “Recently I read a Q’uo session about playing video games, where Q’uo says that we have to meet our kids where they are, or at the level that they are to talk to them. I was hoping that Q’uo could give some inspirational examples. My 13-year-old son listens with interest to my stories about The Ra Material and the transcripts of the channeling of the Confederation, and accepts everything as the most natural thing, but when a child grows up in front of a computer rather than a Tibetan Monastery, the attempts to meditate express themselves in permanent intolerable itching throughout the body, and a sense of irresistible torment. If I can force myself to go on trying to meditate despite all, I have no idea how to cause some aspiration in my son to be persevering and to go through this final stage of self-sabotage. That’s why I ask the question and hope for some insight from Q’uo.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. As each parent is model to the child in some fashion, there are opportunities to utilize both the spiritual practices of the parent, and the interests and endeavors of the child, to blend into a kind of mutual means by which each may come to know the other more and more fully, so that each is offered the opportunity, by example and by word, to demonstrate that which has meaning to the self. The parent may show through example how the meditative state allows one to perceive in more clear terms the nature of the illusion about one as a kind of ultra-intricate computer game that is involving all entities upon the planet in pursuing that which has meaning to the self, finding further and further meaning for each as one is able to move into deeper and deeper states of meditation.

The child, looking upon the opportunities provided by the games of the computer and the functions of searches may become enamored of the ability to gain information that has more or less value in the incarnational expression of that which has meaning to the child so that a conversation may be undertaken between parent and child to determine how each views the nature of its particular reality and the value to each of this perception.

So, each, then, looks within its own experience and finds that which has value to it, examining it carefully against the standard of excellence that each is accustomed to in its own experience. The parent, then—having the opportunity to expand its own experience within the computerized world, and finding analogies within this experience to explain to the child how the meditative state allows the information of true value to sink into the soul of one’s being—thereby enriches the being in a fashion which moves beyond any game or representation of the illusion that seems more important than the basic quality of being able to open one’s heart in love to the child; thereby offers to the child the support of parental love in unqualified fashion, using the games and computer world as a means to find the love within the self within the child and within the world about one.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument, as it is somewhat fatigued. We, as always, thank each present for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking. You, who live in such a heavy, dense, chemical illusion are inspirations to us as you move through such an illusion with the love and the light of the One leading your way at all times. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We leave you now in that love and light. Adonai vasu borragus.

The Law of One, Book I, Session 11:

I don’t know if this is a short question or not, so we can save it till next time, but my only question is why the crusaders from Orion do this. What is their ultimate objective? This is probably too long to answer.

I am Ra. This is not too long to answer. To serve the self is to serve all. The service of the self, when seen in this perspective, requires an ever-expanding use of the energies of others for manipulation to the benefit of the self with distortion towards power.

The Law of One, Book I, Session 4:

I have no idea of how long this would take or if you can even tell anything about that. Is it possible for you to give me a synopsis of the program of training required? I have no knowledge of what questions to ask at this point. I’ll ask that question in the hopes that it makes sense.

I am Ra. We consider your request for information, for as you noted, there are a significant number of vibratory sound complexes which can be used in sequence to train the healer.

The synopsis is a very appropriate entry that you might understand what is involved.

Firstly, the mind must be known to itself. This is perhaps the most demanding part of healing work. If the mind knows itself then the most important aspect of healing has occurred, for consciousness is the microcosm of the Law of One.

The second part has to do with the disciplines of the body complexes. In the streamings reaching your planet at this time, these understandings and disciplines have to do with the balance between love and wisdom in the use of the body in its natural functions.

The third area is the spiritual, and in this area the first two disciplines are connected through the attainment of contact with intelligent infinity.

