Group Question: Q’uo, our question today is, what is the effect of self-judgment on the flow of love/light through our energy centers?

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and greet each in the love, and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are honored this evening to be called to your gathering in order to respond to the query of the evening. Before doing so, we would ask you our perpetual favor, and that is that you take those words and concepts that we offer to you, and use them in whatever way has meaning for you. And if there are any that have no meaning at this time, we would ask that you set them aside and do not concern yourselves with them, for we are your brothers and sisters who wish to serve, and we can serve to our fullest ability when you do as we ask and realize that we are not an ultimate authority, with every word needing to be believed.

And now, for the query, we find that you have asked a query which has a universal application to all seekers of truth. The self-judgment is a feature of each seeker of truth at some point in its journey of seeking to be of service to others and the One Creator which exists within each entity and each portion of the creation. The self-judgment is something that is a stage through which each seeker must needs pass, for it is incumbent upon each seeker in its own beginning of seeking and serving others to consider how it is able to do so. What are its strengths and weaknesses? What features of the classical seeker, shall we say, may be embodied in any particular seeker?

It is what every seeker considers at the beginning of the journey and also from time to time as the journey proceeds. For self-judgment, or self-reflection, is in some manner helpful to determine what the seeker feels are its strengths and weaknesses. And if this assessment is refined as time moves forward, as you would call it, then the seeker is able to make an helpful step in the direction of positive polarization when it utilizes its strengths and seeks to enhance what it considers to be weaknesses. If this can remain as an objective process, where the seeker is able to accept itself in both its strengths and weaknesses, then it is engaged in a self-reflective mode of conscious realization that will help it to make progress in its being of service to others, and to recognizing the Creator within others, and the Creator within the self. For these are spiritual attributes, that all seekers, and all entities, whether they be conscious seekers or not, share with each other. For it is the nature of reality that all is One, that each seeker is the Creator, that the Creator exists within each seeker.

However, we are also aware that the self-judgment is a process that can easily go awry. For if one does not realize that there are steps that lead ever forward upon the spiritual path and feels that the self is lacking in some priority in its own assessment of its abilities, then it is more likely that the seeker shall have some difficulty in making progress, for it will be caught in a web of confusion and self-judgment that does not accept the self, but that sees the self as less than what it should be. And if one stays within such a quagmire of self-assessment, the progress is slowed to a halt in many cases, and the various energy centers, or the system of chakras as you may also call them, will be blocked in some fashion, according to the seeker’s own estimation of its failings—the product of self-judgment.

This is a process or a stage of growth which all seekers, at some point, as we have said, will find themselves perhaps from time to time, needing to make a more compassionate assessment of the self rather than focusing upon the, shall we say, wisdom-oriented picture that is painted by a seeker who does not have the compassion to see that all qualities within the mind/body/spirit complex are those which can offer progress on the spiritual path if one can see and accept the self for having each of these qualities within its own being. Thus does the seeker begin to become more and more the Creator, for there is the perception of every quality that may be experienced becoming more and more of the 360-degree nature of the Creator that each conscious seeker of truth is attempting to become.

This is where you begin more and more to know yourself as a being which has each energy center as a platform upon which to stand and to survey its inner being and accept various of the qualities that are present in the day-to-day experiences with other selves, illuminated by the interactions with other selves. As the seeker then is able to accept itself, rather than to judge itself and reject itself, then it comes to know more and more that it is the One Creator, for there is no limit to the nature and the ability to express various portions of this nature of the One Creator within each seeker of truth.

At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Trisha. We are those of Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those Q’uo and we are now with this instrument. As the instrument before was able to communicate using our words and their voice, the act of self-judgment is an inherent part of this illusion in this density that an entity must experience. Through this instrument, we feel that it is somewhat of a funny paradox, though. For you see, self-judgment inherently puts the entity into a position where it is envisioning him, her, them-self as an individual examining an egoic quality, if you will, assigning value to various aspects of the self without fully embodying the fact that, while the ego feels very real and the entity experiences this illusion as an individual, in reality, the entity is merely an imperfectly perfect extension or fragment of the One Infinite Creator. We stress the phrase “perfectly imperfect,” for that may land upon your ears as more acceptable than perhaps the phrase “exquisitely unique” or “perfectly unique.”

This, for lack of a better word, selfish act that is self-judgment divides and pushes the entity away from the truth of its nature living out this dance within this illusion. It is when the entity loses sight of the truth that energy flow can be blocked within the entity. It is when the self adds in extra details to its identity, if you will—statements of judgment positive or negative—that one adds debris, if you will, to the channel through which one may experience and manifest its truth. We have heard you people call this “baggage,” and we find that an apt term, that it becomes this extra weight, this extra burden that the self feels it must carry, that the self struggles to find a way to let go of.

We also stress again that judgment need not necessarily be negative in nature. Judgment can also be positive, and however that manifests, whether that be a healthy manifestation of pride or sense of accomplishment, while it may act as a balm to the heart of the entity, which we again say is a beautiful thing, for how difficult experience in your illusion may seem to you, it is yet again a distancing of the truth of the self from the Creator.

We realize while speaking through this instrument that this may be a confusing line of thought, that it could be healthy to view oneself with gentle criticism or gentle praise, in that it may lead to spiritual evolution, and we would absolutely agree with that. We are simply highlighting that it is still but an illusion, it is still this dance, this assignment of unique identity that you are you, and I am me, and they are them, without honoring, we correct this instrument, without fully expressing the truth of interconnection that is the philosophy that we feel is the truth.

As the instrument before stated, acceptance is truly key here. Accepting the self for their various actions and thoughts and feelings, understanding them, loving them, learning from them, but always at the core, accepting them is vital to the maintenance, if you will, of a clear channel of love and light through each soul, each entity.

We would perhaps ask the self how can one fully give love and light, fully be the full self, the full extension of the Creator, the full embodiment of the Creator if there are limits, limitations, and barriers that divert the flow or create disturbance? That is what self-judgment and non-acceptance can create. It can obstruct, it can weaken, it can divert the flow of the truth that is the energy that is you. It can dim the light that is the expression of the self. It can color the beauty of the expression of the self. So, again, acceptance and love and knowing the truth of the self, being gentle and forgiving and understanding of the self, not only works to clear the flow of energy through the entity, through the soul, through the heart, but also allows the self its most potent opportunity to express its vibrancy, its true beauty, its true perfection.

This instrument is feeling lethargic and insecure, self-judgmental perhaps, at this time, and with gentleness, compassion and gratitude for this attempt, she will release this contact and we will transfer ourselves to the one known as Gary. We are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo and we greet this circle once again through this instrument, who suffers from some self-doubting as a carryover from his previous performance as an instrument and seeks something of a warming up of his instrument before tackling the question. So, we would speak to our joy at this opportunity to be able to blend our energies with your own as a carrier wave that we transfer to your location and space/time and time/space. This is not merely a one-way beam, shall we say, but a two-way exchange of energies as we dance in shared intention to humbly be of service to others by attempting to give some voice to the way of the Creator in an illusion.

And this evening, in your time, you will explore or … we correct this instrument … continue exploring that tenacious and sometimes insidious pattern of self-judgment that is so widespread in an illusion that has not set its collective compass upon truth-seeking, but has instead settled with many other ways to attempt to value and evaluate the self’s place in society and desirability to others and ability to perform, to achieve, to gain approval.

These criteria, or fragmented systems of evaluation, seldom take into account the underlying perfection of the self, the perfection that doesn’t simply exist underneath whatever the distortion of the self, but the perfection that also is manifested as the particular imbalances and blockages that the self works with, or lives with, on a daily basis. Your people’s systems of evaluation do not make space, generally speaking, for the divine nature of self and other self, and the true purpose of the experience and journey of life.

These systems of evaluation have a collective blindness, so to speak, built of and for the illusion; they look not beyond it. And there is much pain and suffering engendered in these ways of seeing, for they rebound and ricochet across your world through countless voices, and countless forms of messaging, that each within your sphere is absolutely bombarded with, that speak about how the self is fundamentally unworthy and can achieve some worth in the society’s eyes by way of acquisition, often associated with the appearance of the entity or perhaps the behavior, the acceptable behavior, or desirable behavior of the entity; or the material goods or some other way by which one becomes elevated in the eyes of others, acceptable in the eyes of others. And many of your peoples, therefore, expend great quantities of energy, even lifetimes, chasing those elusive goals, seeking that acceptance from the neighbor or from the larger society.

In a way, it is a chasing of a mirage, for multiple reasons, including as we have described, the limitations and blindness of these temperature readings of the self, [along with] the socially constructed nature of these shifting ways of evaluating the self whereby one culture may uphold one form of behavior or appearance and the other culture its opposite, perhaps. But it is also a mirage to chase this acceptance, and to engineer oneself so as to conform to these standards and rules, because the self is seeking to gain outside of itself that which can only be accessed and allowed inwardly, on an interior level, shall we say. For it is not so much others that are judging the self, however that may be happening, but, it is rather the internalization that the self has made of the judgment of others, whether real or imagined. It is the internalization that the self, your third-density entity, has absorbed from its environment, whether correctly apprehended or misapprehended. Either way, that which is perceived to be the world’s values become the self’s own, and in the workings of the self, the self is measured constantly against these standards. And, lo and behold, no big surprise, as this instrument might say, the self is found to come up short in various ways, not having met the standard and therefore not being acceptable.

These processes are repeated so often in the entity’s life, and often so mindlessly, indeed, [and perhaps even] carried over from past lives, that they become etched into the workings of the entity, becoming part of its makeup, or configuration, shall we say, which would show up in your energy system as blockage, imbalance, and a dimming of the radiance that is available through each chakra. Which is to say, that self-judgment may not always be a consciously undertaken activity. The self in a moment in its experience may not be consciously thinking, “I am unworthy,” “I do not belong,” “I am unacceptable,” in whatever ways such energies may be articulated by an entity, but rather these gears often are operating in the background.

And the entity with no awareness, or dim awareness, or acute awareness may experience the symptomology of these programs within the self, which often have roots in the subconscious. And lacking awareness, the entity may be confused about its pain, its self-identity, why it is that it looks outward for this love and this acceptance from others, or why it is that it seeks to conform or to mold the self in order to gain that which is sought without realizing, through self-awareness, that it is the self which is judging self; that there are programs within the self put into place by the innocent and unaware entity which inform the self that it is indeed unacceptable to be itself, for one reason or another. It is excluded from the group, it does not have permission to shine, to radiate, to feel whole or at home, to be authentic, to be vulnerable, to speak to this or that person, to be worthy.

Unaware, this entity is, that its own programming [becomes] like a dam against a river literally blocking the flow of the Creator’s Love and Light, that which absent of said dam would flow into the system in an embrace of the Creator’s view of the incarnate itself, which is one of infinite love. There is no beauty standard, shall we say, from the Creator. There is no way possible to be ugly in the eyes of the Creator, to be fallen or wretched. There is no way to be cast out in the context of infinity, for as those of Ra have said, a unity cannot abhor anything, because unity contains all that there is. 1

If one can imagine the parent and the beloved child, and with what purity, utter devotion, and unreserved, unqualified love that this parent may have for this child, it is but a small sliver of window into the infinite depth of love that the Creator has for that portion of Itself which believes itself to be a separate entity within incarnation. This love can be allowed to meet the self at the red-ray level, at the orange-ray level, at the yellow-ray, and upward, and every portion of the identity which is centered or intersects with these centers and their balances—whether it is the way that the self talks, whether it is the perceived intelligence level, as you might call it, of the entity, whether it is what they own or do not own, or whether it is their ability, in this or that way.

When the eyes of self-judgment, or the programs of self-judgment have been healed or made transparent, the Creator’s light may shine through the self to gain a clearer picture of these various aspects of the personality shell, and its biography, its journey. For without these clear eyes, which are made clear only with love and the healing of judgment, the self has a very muddy picture of self; and lacking clarity, the self will likely operate in ways that miss the goal, so to speak, insofar as the entity is not engaged in the work of self-forgiveness but is working to satisfy shadows with shadows, is working to get and receive instead of focusing upon sharing and giving that may come infinitely through a self which has come into an acceptance of its beingness.

In terms of healing that self-judgment and doing that work of self-acceptance, we would as always encourage the seeker to spend time daily in the silence. Those programs of which we spoke and those thoughts which grabbed your mind have a way of taking over, shall we say, the mind/body/spirit complex, seducing it into unconsciousness, unconscious identification with mental patterns that run on their own. Time spent in silence is the key to gaining the necessary distance so as to become aware of the operation of these programs and these thoughts.

And [we would encourage the seeker] to ground the self in the contemplation of the self as the Creator. It is only from the Creator that this true self-acceptance may come. That Creator’s acceptance is beamed into your illusion through various devices, perhaps your mother’s embrace, your father’s eyes, your lover’s care, which may give you a clear reflection of yourself, but ultimately, the self must spend time with the Creator in its own heart, outside of the values of the illusion, shall we say.

There is much torment within you, our third-density friends, where you unknowingly deny your true natures through this faculty of self-judgment. In a way you could see it as an act of harm of the self, though it is a potent and endemic catalyst that, if used, ultimately spurs a journey to the One Creator. But it is perhaps one of the most difficult things that you will encounter upon your journey: to release what is so deeply ingrained within your thinking, the self-judgment that feels right to limit the self in this way. It is not something that happens to you, per se, but is part of, often, the structure of your identity. It is as effective as a wall in some regards. But the way that barrier comes down is through love, contemplation upon love, allowing the self to love and cherish the self.

It can start with the intention and the acting as if the self loved the self. It can include work upon becoming aware of the ways in which these programs operate within the self among many, many avenues open to you, including in working with others and sharing with others authentically the processes underway within you, and the pains and the joys of your interior experience, and the trust that what it is you are experiencing is valid and worthy, and is part of the material for your own growth.

Aim your intentions, my friends upon this self-acceptance. The self does not meet the Creator within by becoming worthy, but rather, realizing that the self is already worthy, already forgiven, as the self is. The more that the self can dwell in this forgiven, redemptive state, the more that the Creator within can shine through and illuminate and brighten your world and reach the hearts of others, offering them a window into the possibilities of freeing their own hearts and minds from the inner prison walls of self-judgment. The Creator does not judge you. The universe does not judge you. It is only your thoughts; and it is within your power to heal and to release those thoughts in contemplation of the truth of the One Infinite Creator.

At this time, we thank this instrument for its service and we transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We are those known to you as Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. We have found much this evening to rejoice for than we have in many previous sessions, for we have a feeling that there has been not only the accurate transmission of our words and thoughts, but also the taking within the self of these words and thoughts of self-acceptance that overcomes self-judgment, so that there is the possibility of healing not only for the instruments here gathered this evening, but also for those who shall read these words and take them into their own being, so, that there is a possibility of a great healing emanating throughout the readership of these transcripts, and we are most grateful to be part of this healing process. We thank each instrument for its portion of our process of projecting our thoughts and words to you. We are most grateful for your journeys of seeking for they illuminate a great portion of our own being as we are one with you and that journey that we are all making back into unity with the One Infinite Creator.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, thanking each as always for their ever lasting love and projecting of it as light to those about them. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

About one of Ra’s tangos with the Egyptians, they said: “We spoke to one who heard and understood and was in a position to decree the Law of One. However, the priests and peoples of that era quickly distorted our message, robbing it of the, shall we say, compassion with which unity is informed by its very nature. Since it contains all, it cannot abhor any.” #1.5 ↩

