Group question: Q’uo, this question comes from our friend, Fox, who writes: “There is a school of thought that suggests that a way to peace and happiness is to surrender to and accept the reality that exists in each present moment without judgment or preference. One way of saying this is that what is best for all is what actually happens—to want whatever you have. On the other hand, there is the school of thought that [states that] by forming intentions and affirmations, one can influence what arises in each present moment; and that this process helps to co-create and essentially have some control over what appears in our lives. Another way of saying this might be that one can manifest positive or negative thoughts as reality—one can have what one wants. These views seem at odds. Please, Q’uo, help us to understand how these two schools of thought pertain to our lives here and third density.”

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument at this time. We greet each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator, of which we are all a part. We thank you for your invitation today to join your circle of seeking. We are happy to lend our opinions to your query for the day, if you will do us that favor that we always ask: and that is to use your own discrimination as to what words or concepts have meaning to you, and to leave behind any that do not. In this way, you give us greater freedom to speak our thoughts through you this day as you practice the channeling service.

Your query for the day is one that is very interesting to us, for it is a representation of the conscious seeker of truth in pursuing the path of service to others. The question has been posed: Is it more effective for the seeker to simply work with the catalyst of the day—those interactions with others that naturally are part of each seeker’s day, so that each seeker simply utilizes the opportunities of the moment in whatever way they have to process the experience and gain from it information to enhance the spiritual journey and to be a service to others? Or is it more effective to create what one may call intentions or visualizations or the type of affirmation that is designed to structure the experience of the seeker in a fashion that will be more effective in doing the work of the seeker to learn and to serve?

We would suggest that, when you look at the first technique of accepting what is in your, you may say, destiny for the day, that you are being a receptacle or an individual expression of your preincarnative choices that allow you to proceed in a fashion which has its own internal rhythm so that you may utilize this choice of what lesson to learn in this illusion that has come to you through your subconscious perception of the moment. This is the means by which most spiritual seekers are able to utilize what you may call the mirroring effect, where those that are part of the seeker’s day show to the seeker some aspect of the seeker’s preincarnative choices that will enhance the seeker’s journey through the third density illusion. Each of you mirrors to the other that which the other has made a plan for expansion of its own consciousness due to the processing of the catalyst that comes from the mirroring effect. This is the means by which the great majority of spiritual seekers have access to enhancing their own understanding, shall we say, of their life’s path and purpose.

On the other hand, any seeker may at any time become aware of certain desires that yet itself feels are of an helpful nature if they are brought into the experiential nature of each day. To visualize or describe a certain affirmation is to make a particular kind of experience more liable to occur than the random or seeming-random experience that does not use the affirmation or visualization. In this sense, you may see the possibility for giving the self a kind of alternative to the preincarnative choice. However, we would also suggest that as the affirmation is created, oftentimes the inspiration for such affirmation is that which is also preincarnatively chosen. Thus, there is the blending of that which is the conscious choice and that which has been determined before the incarnation to be the most helpful or appropriate path for the seeker to travel. At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are those known to you as Q’uo.

(Austin Channeling)

I am Q’uo, and I am with this instrument.

And so these two varying approaches to the spiritual path and to approaching one’s life may seemingly be at odds, but upon a closer examination you may find that they are more compatible and intertwined than one may initially perceive. We find that this is often the case when a seeker within the third density discovers upon their path a seeming paradox. The limited view available within your illusion often hides the underlying unifying metaphysical reality that allows all paradoxes to be resolved.

This limitation is one reason why we often offer what you call a disclaimer before we address queries and speak our thoughts through instruments within your channeling circle. We understand that when presenting such concepts from a point of view removed from the third density, there may sometimes seem to be puzzles or what appear to be contradictions in what could be called metaphysical logic. We encourage seekers to take with them that which resonates, for we find that this encouragement, if accepted by those who hear or read our words, often delivers to the seeker a simpler and more applicable truth without the need to resolve all paradoxes or reconcile all information that we share with you. And so, in this instance with the query that has been presented, we encourage the seeker to contemplate the underlying manner in which these two seemingly different approaches to the spiritual path may be applicable individually in varying situations and to different seekers.

We find that so often, the stumbling blocks upon the spiritual path include the internal distortion of resistance to that which is —and this resistance can become a perpetuating cycle as the seeker is met with a difficult situation, a persisting theme, or a general unpleasant experience in their lives, and aversion causes the seeker to fight against this experience in order to vanquish it. And yet, we find this approach, when lacking the love of acceptance, generates a metaphysical charge that will, in many cases, perpetuate and even increase the intensity of the catalyst which is fought. So the first approach described within the query—that of surrendering—may, in a moment, be that which the seeker needs the most and, in that moment, is the extent of a spiritual approach that can be taken to then release the charge of perpetuating catalyst, thus allowing the seeker to accept the catalyst and utilize it for their spiritual growth.

But when this approach is applied to the entirety of one’s life within the third density, we believe the nuanced perspective that accounts for both approaches described in the larger spiritual journey of the seeker becomes necessary. To surrender to each and every moment without preference, without desire, would be, in our opinion, to completely miss the point, if you will, of the third density.

Your journeys up to the point of third density have been carefully designed to imprint upon you very fundamental energies, causing you to take upon yourself certain distortions of preference and desire. In the first density, entities learn to be moved and to move and to shape and to be shaped. And as this dynamic persists into the evolution of second density, there is an ever-increasing complexity of influences upon the entity, creating a pattern of preference and desire that is then carried into the third density. And it is this ever-important imprinting that generates the true benefit of the illusion accepted by the entity within third density. [In] exploring these preferences and these desires while the perception is veiled to the so-called larger picture, thus is polarization towards the service to others or the service to self possible.

So we find the advice to completely surrender and let go of all desire and all preference to be, in one sense, inadequate to address the full necessity of the third density seeker’s journey to the Creator.

At this time, we leave this instrument and transfer the content to the one known as Trish. We are Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument.

As has been previously spoken to, the general and over-sweeping acceptance of circumstance in this density, while admirable, is deficient, may we say, in its allowance for the fullest experience and expression of the individual aspect of the Creator in this density. As we see it, the acceptance of circumstance is a portion of that yin and yang symbol that many on your planet are aware of. Without the specific connotations of that symbol, we see the tactic of full acceptance [while] having relationship with acts of intention setting, visualization, and affirmation to be a creation of something that is more whole, if you will. Like two puzzle pieces that fit together to create a fuller picture, the information from one tie in seamlessly with the information from another to form a full expression.

That being said, each seeker will inherently be a unique aspect of the kaleidoscope that is the Creator. Each seeker may depend upon acceptance more than the setting of intention, while their brother or sister may operate oppositely. We must stress that there is no true wrong, if you will, way of using or employing these tactics, for all is one and a great experience in this illusion—bountiful with opportunity for growth, learning and experience. Both tactics require, on the seeker’s behalf, a sense of faith: which is, in itself, a powerful tool towards spiritual evolution. It is finding that balance that each seeker may feel a need to experiment with and discover.

Again, we send this instrument the notion of faith that, with these two tactics under one’s employ, they both require a sense of knowing the truth that all is well. For in the first tactic of acceptance, you are met with situations that one may define as negative or positive, helpful or not helpful, painful or pleasurable. But the acceptance of them, however you describe them, takes a leap of faith to recognize that they are valid and important. And that you are meant to, if you will, experience these situations, that it is part of your journey, part of your story.

The other tactic, being the setting of intentions, the affirming thoughts, the visualizations of what one desires, requires faith in that there is the knowledge that you are putting your energy/your light out into the universe and hoping and asking without necessary return of the desired outcome. And to continue doing that takes a great amount of faith.

Now, we must point out that one may not be able truly to incorporate just one tactic without even a taste of the other tactic. For we see that [in] setting an intention and not having what one desires to become reality in your illusion, one will likely have to at least faith—we correct this instrument—face the fact that that the non-desired outcome will either require acceptance or denial. Even just facing that choice is, in some part, a realization that acceptance must happen, even if you accept to not accept, if you will. And if one just goes through life accepting everything as it makes itself a participant in your reality, the experiencer must—we correct this instrument—the experiencer will likely require at least some form of an intention setting, even unconsciously or subconsciously, to keep the path—we correct this instrument—to keep those footsteps moving forward along the path. For without desire and with only pure acceptance, one may find themselves completely stationary, without one foot moving towards a hoped [for] outcome.

So again, we stress that we see a need for a special balance between these two methods for making sense, if you will, of your outlook on your incarnation. When used together in that perfect balance—which again is unique to each seeker, as each seeker is a unique expression of the kaleidoscope that is the Creator—the combined use of these tools in their perfect balance is—we correct this instrument—combination of the use of these two methods is far stronger than one without the other.

This instrument, feeling like she is struggling to hold on to the many threads that are appearing in her mind as she channels, and having difficulty putting words to what she is receiving at this time, will elect to discontinue this contact and transfer the channel to the one known as Gary. We are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those known to you as Q’uo, and we would speak now through this instrument, who always tends to feel a moment of trepidation at the beginning of our transmission as it is something of a leaping off of a cliff—not knowing how it shall commence and where it shall go, especially on a topic as endlessly rich as that which is broached by the questioner.

What is the right use of will? My friends, this is a question which will be with you for a long time to come, well beyond your present lifetime and, indeed, this present density. For the will is, as Ra described it, the “great conduit to the Creator.” In the experiment, shall we say, that is the creation, each of the Creator’s parts are endowed with this will. This will is baked into the design of your beingness. It is that primal mechanism whereby you will choose your method of self-discovery; choose among an infinite variety of choices, your pathway to the Creator; choose your manner of beingness and expression and the duration and extent and entanglement of confusion as you teeter between that primal balance of acceptance and resistance.

Aiming the will towards acceptance is, we would say, a skillful use of will, for each act of acceptance smooths the journey and aligns one’s self with, you might say, a more organic evolutionary path. This is not to say that there are wrong choices, per se, or that there are mistakes. In the macrocosmic sense, every use of will is a right use of will, for even in confusion, even in resistance and negation, the self will be meeting the self. Even if what is met is resisted or run from, that, too, teaches—and, once consciously embraced, will reveal self to self.

These seemingly dual or paradoxical uses of will, wherein one seeks a goal versus accepts what is presented, may be framed and approached in a variety of ways—one of which we would submit for your consideration is as something of a continuum, whereby one mode transitions into the other by that faculty made possible through acceptance, which is perhaps taken to an even higher level, which you might call trust or faith.

For in the personal use of will, which the Creator hopes that you will exercise in your choice-making journey, the more that you can set the will to the vibration and practice of acceptance, the more that your own will blends with the one will. And [if] trust [is exercised] that that which you are experiencing is the fruit of your personal will, then that which is reflected back to you—particularly and especially the difficult and challenging catalyst, the limitations, and the pain—is, shall we say, [understood to be] the universe working for you. [It is] the intelligent, responsive, adaptive illusion providing you the material that you wanted; on a fundamental level, material that is shaped by preincarnational bias and imprinting, and then continued with the exercise of the incarnate will.

This trust is a key to the discovery of that which the questioner presumably seeks when they speak of surrender. That being the quality of peace—to be less in-conflict with their own beingness, to be less tormented or in states of suffering and pain as expectations invariably remain unmet or hopes unrealized. The keen student of spiritual evolution perceives that surrender must surely be a doorway to that equanimity and peace, that relative freedom from suffering, and to that holy grail, which is sought but so dimly understood: that being the communion with the One Creator.

These often seem as different uses of will because, as we were describing earlier through another instrument, the resistance that is often inherent in the personal use of will. In that personal use, the self is often quite inadvertently running away from one’s catalyst—either surrounding oneself in a defense mechanism or suppressing, rejecting, ignoring. And in this exercise of will, additional catalyst will be procured by the self to give the self ever new opportunities to come to the place of acceptance within the self.

The will vibrates within you and asks of you for its use. It must be exercised. It is not only your sacred right, but duty to so engage this engine of evolution and this compass setting within your being. You are called to make choices—fundamentally, in your density , the choice to serve others or self. And that will is, you might say, the Creator operating through you and awakening in you. Do not doubt this will and its promptings—but do question that what you desire; do analyze what it is you seek; do identify your motivations and intentions; and do bring those into meditation that they may be clarified. For many things which are sought are for, shall we say, more shallow needs within the being, for sources of satisfaction or the compensation of deficiency within the self—particularly, the seeking of love from sources external to the self, or the shoring up of self-identity in some way.

In understanding these, we correct this instrument, this class of the use of will, and in distilling the fruit of love/light from these particular uses of will, one—very slowly through each release of distortion, resistance, and defense— moves closer and closer to that which one ultimately and truly desires, t hat is, the original desire: the desire to seek and become one.

In the panoply of desires, at the heart of the tree of desire is that original desire within every being. Often, the daily exercise of the will is near the branches—perhaps some of the primary branches, perhaps near the smaller fragments of offshoots and twigs at the extremities of the branches as the self looks out to the illusion for various experiences. And all those outwardly desired things are valid in and of themselves. But as the self traces this multiplicity of desire, which makes use of the will, back to the center, as these out branching desires funnel backward, shall we say, into the heart of this tree; one again finds that the will and all of its strength and power is being recollected back into the primary conduit of seeking and serving the One.

And thus, the will opens the space for deepened surrender as the vision begins to glimpse beyond the story of the illusion and into the true nature of this and all moments in eternity, that being that this moment is whole, it is complete, and it is perfect. However it may appear to be manifesting within the illusion and upon the surface of life, it is divine and perfect, precisely as it is. It is, as we spoke through a previous instrument, a perfect, kaleidoscopic, ephemeral experience of the Creator.

At this time, we would transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this circle. Adonai, my friends.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. It has been quite an adventure for us to see how each of you are able to expand upon the questions that we were presented this morning. It is quite inspiring to us to realize that you are able to perceive the finest of discriminations that we offer you that elucidate the basic principles that we have been able to channel through each—how each may see the catalyst of the day, how each may process that catalyst in a fashion which is unique to each and which may be enhanced by the visualizations and the creations of images of intuition of beingness, of affirmations that are an enhancement to your spiritual path.

We thank each for your desire to be of service and your conscientiousness in so doing. We shall, at this time, take our leave of this group. We leave you in the love and the light of the One Creator, which is all that there is. And we remind you that we are with you in your meditations when asked to help deepen them and allow more inspiration from the One to flow through to you. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We leave each in that love and light. Adonai vasu borragus.

