Discontinuing service to a loved one; the inconveniences of planetary transition; balancing the forces of opposing dynamics; the nature and origin of thought.

(Trish channeling)

I am Q’uo, and I am now with this instrument. We greet all of you in this circle with much thanksgiving and much love. We are overjoyed to see such a gathering of like-hearts and like-minds joining hands in the quest to further understand self, further understand other-self, further understand unity and, at the end of this game, further understand the Creator. It is inspiring and warming and welcoming, this environment that you have created; this tiny community, a satellite among many on your planet. To see such love, such connection and such familiarity between self and other-self—our hearts are filled.

Know that we look upon you with much admiration, like a brother and a sister witnessing each other from afar, delighting in growth, delighting in the milestones that each receives and that each overcomes. We thank you, each and every one of you for joining us an for inviting us. We shall attempt to speak through these instruments.

There is one request that we shall make, and that is that whatever may come through these instruments be taken only for that which is resonant. The words that do not resonate with you we ask that you simply allow them to fall away. If you would grant us that honor, we would feel more free to speak. And with that request and with much excitement and much grace for these instruments, we shall ask if there is a query to which we may speak?

Yes, how can I stop helping a loved one without feeling pain?

We are those of Q’uo and we are aware of the query and are thankful, my sister. We can understand the difficulty in the navigation of the interpersonal dynamics of which you speak. As a service-to-[others] entity on this planet striving for graduation into the fourth density, we know that, at your heart, what you desire is to be of service, to be loving, to be of aid to those who are in need. And so we can further understand the challenge and catalyst that comes with the experience in which you cannot render the aid, in which you cannot be of help in the ways you may think. And for that we feel deeply for that experience. That experience is valid. And we understand why pain may come forth. To that extent we may say that pain is a part of this life experience. Part of something that you wish to choose to experience that you may better understand yourself, that the Creator may better understand Itself.

And so we would like to speak to this idea of the martyr’s path, the idea that one must, shall we say, take a journey of aid that would put one in pain, and how to navigate this experience in which you may walk away without pain.

The martyr’s path, though deeply rooted in service-to-others and fully drenched in love for other, is not a sustainable path. One may only follow this path so many times before the lessons become harder, the incarnations become more challenging, more in your face, you may say, with what you intend to learn, and that is the balance that comes with wisdom. You are free to love unconditionally, and we know that you, here in this circle, choose to strive to. That, however, can be done with the balance of wisdom.

Wisdom can come in many forms. Wisdom can be the very act of looking at the relationship at hand. We believe that this question has that layer of wisdom in that the question-asker is seeking for the guidance of how to walk away. Experiencing painfulness is, as we said, perhaps part of the lesson. The walking away, though, is a choice that puts your service-to-others as a focus. We ask those in this circle contemplating this question to consider your abilities, your energy, as being stored within the vessel of your soul. If you are constantly giving and pouring from that vessel, what have you left for yourself? What have you left to give if you continually defeat [the self]?

In this action of walking away, you put further drops in that vessel to help you be of greater service-to-others. We say all this as a critical reminder that, in the very act of walking away, you are being of service-to-others, not just in the future, and not just towards yourself, but also in the very act of walking away, you are providing a lesson to that other-self.

The many dynamics in which this potential decision must be made are varied. We know that each and every one of you have probably faced this kind of difficulty, this challenge. When one can view this dynamic and this catalyst with the eyes of love and with the gentle touch, one may see that there will be instances in which this walking away must occur, and that that is okay. When love is in the intention, the core, the very foundation of this decision, there is beauty there; there is growth.

The Creator and the creation see that it is not viewed as malicious. It is not viewed as what you may call wrong. Instead, it is a beautiful, poignant moment of realization, of worth of self, and is a loving action that produces positive vibrations outward, not just from you and within you, but out into the universe for the Creator to know Itself.

The self must ponder these difficult decisions. It must face challenging choices, and it must forgive itself and allow itself to be unable to do everything, and to [meanwhile] still see itself as beautiful, as perfect, as divine, both in its decision and in its very being.

We shall remind you that in this cosmic game you play, this stage upon which you dance, there are, at the end of the day, no wrong decisions. There are merely infinite avenues for you to explore, for you to navigate and understand self better. We say this to hopefully instill a sense of peace in your decision, knowing that, that pain is understandably sourced in love. We would ask that that same love you extend to that other-self, you [also] extend to self, recognizing that you too are worthy. You are worthy of that attention; you are worthy of that care. And when you are able to do that for yourself, you can more fully realize your potential to do that for others.

We are those of Q’uo and we have appreciated speaking to this query. We shall ask if there is another query to which we may speak?

Yes, humanity currently receives much collective catalyst to work with that allows us humans to recognize, accept, love, and then balance all collective distortions that have been mostly hidden from our conscious consideration thus far. This collective catalyst will, in one way or another, manifest what we may call inconveniences. Is this perception correct? And, if so, how can positively oriented seekers best aid Mother Earth and all of humanity when such inconveniences happen?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware and thankful for this query, my brother. We appreciate the recognition and the intention behind this particular question that you see these collective catalysts occurring among you; that you wish to understand their nature, and that, at the core of your seeking, you wish to be of service, not only to other-self, but to the planet.

The intentional use of the word “inconvenience” we find quite potent, for we believe that there is some legitimacy in that particular characteristic. These inconveniences, you may call them, are due in part to this discomfort that this planet and planets’ people feel as they are, you may say, on a different trajectory. Perhaps not in direction, but perhaps in speed from Mother Earth, your planet, Gaia, which has already moved onto a further density while you on this planet are still trudging, still walking the path to greet her in that new light.

And because of this, there is great discomfort, confusion, chaos, misunderstanding. These inconveniences can be felt and seen in various ways on your planet. There are those of the interpersonal flavor: the conflict, the war, judgment, the divisions. It may also be seen in environmental ways. The way that this planet struggles to continue to yield that which its people needs, the way the weather reacts, the way the oceans rise, the way the earth moves. These particular inconveniences, though [they] provide much pain and confusion, are potent tools for the seeker who wishes to better understand this cosmic journey, this greater design. Witnessing them as inconveniences, we understand, may be seen as a not fully, shall we say, inclusive term to what you are actually experiencing. It may feel much larger, much more expansive, much more difficult.

However, the humor of calling it an inconvenience is that it is but a bump in the infinite timeline that you are experiencing. So, viewing these moments, these greater things that are occurring on the planet among your people and in relation to Mother Earth with an open heart and with gentle, loving arms, to welcome it into your life, into your experience, may be of great help in terms of how to navigate and how to be of service to humanity and to the planet.

The most simple, the most basic way to be available is to simply radiate your being. To go deep within the self and find, at your core, that truth which is infinite, that which is without bounds and without description. That being the love, that burning core within each and every one of us. When you can fully harness, recognize, understand and allow that love to radiate outward, authentically and vulnerably, you may not realize when you touch the hearts of others. When you can act in that way with love always as the focus of your steering wheel, you will find that others are inspired by your actions. You will find that you are also not alone, that there are selves on your planet who are following the same path, that you are fellow journeymen on this road to bring love and light and understanding and forgiveness. So, again, the most simple way to be of service is to simply radiate the truth of yourself.

Of course, there are many other ways beyond that. There is the loving service that one may gift to another by simply hearing what they may have to say, by simply smiling as you walk by, or by providing a shoulder on which they may cry. And when those dynamics become challenging and difficult, then just simply wishing them love and light is an action which has benefit, is an action that is felt on a cosmic level.

There is also the means of meditation, the purposeful, intentional act of silence is setting forth an invocation for healing of the planet in a sacred space that can be more powerful than you may be able to perceive in your current physical vehicle. Attending to the earth in loving ways, seeing where more patience, more assistance can be given, be it by simple actions, the tending of a garden, the cleaning of a stream, all of these simple acts can be immensely felt by the planet and can be moments of inspiration for other-selves, who see the love and care that you gift to this planet, and feel a spark within them ignite wishing to do the same.

My friends, we understand that those actions may seem small in your perspective, when great large things move among you. And we remind you that every positive action, every service-to-other’s action you put forth is meaningful, is felt. You don’t need to completely fix the planet. You simply need to be the loving and pure self that is at your core. To walk forth with faith, to be true in your will, to always keep your focus on the skyline, seeing the loving sun and feeling its worth, knowing that all of this is divine design. A beautiful and, though it may feel, wild ride for the Creator and all of the Creator’s children to find love and forgiveness, to realize their Creatorship.

We hope that those of you here who feel so inspired, who long to be of assistance to this planet and her people, know that gatherings such as this and connections that you foster with one another and with others outside of these circles are beautiful testaments to the way towards the fourth-density experience.

We are so thankful to have witnessed such a most pure gathering of beautiful souls. Please note that this does make a difference. At this time, we shall take leave of this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Gary. We are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo and we thank the previous instrument and this circle for making time and setting aside the concerns so that your attention, your energies, and your bodies may be present to allow us the space to offer some of our commentary upon your questions, with the important caveat that we are not in your density. We do not have the catalysts, the limitations, and the sufferings that you carry. We see and we feel these things within you, and we yearn to meet those needs, requests, and the suffering that you carry to the best of our limited abilities. And we hope that our words may not necessarily solve any riddles for you, but offer a springboard into that which, with the application of your own will and faith, may unlock the tangles and confusions and misapprehensions that you have placed around your heart.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query to which we may respond? We are those of Q’uo.

Yes, hierarchical concepts and beliefs. I see them as highlighting certain qualities within my being. But then I also notice the antithesis of those. These opposing dynamics seem to possess their own characteristics, such as masculine/feminine, passive/active, flowing/stagnant, balanced/imbalanced. Could the Confederation comment on how best to work with these forces and proper balancing?

We are those of Q’uo, and have received and offer gratitude for this question and the space that it allows us to speak to a key and never-ending aspect of your journey, especially difficult in the third density; that being of the balancing, balancing of energies and forces and aspects and facets of your identity and experience. For you exist as seemingly separate beings in a universe of manyness.

In this manyness, there are infinite and infinitely unique relationships between the various seeming aspects of the Creator, in proportion, in dynamic, in push and pull. These relationships do not come to you—that is, these relationships of the seeming components of the self and the aspects of the daily experience—packaged in a way that you may call equitable. One impulse may be stronger than another, one aspect of the experience may speak louder than the other, and so forth. It is to the seeker to find the fulcrum between these opposite and complementary and often opposing forces within the self.

So this duality of experience is one of tension and friction. To identify or energize one aspect of this whole to the exclusion of other opposing aspects, or lack of awareness of the opposing aspect, is to invite potential imbalance, and an artificially limited point of view that obscures the vision of the self and the universe as the Creator, which only begins to come into view with that more holistic understanding which sees and, in your limited degree, understands that the self is a being of 360 degrees.

The self that includes the light and the shadow, the, as the questioner identified, masculine and the feminine, the dominant and the submissive, the desire to speak, the desire to listen, and so forth. It is first, as this questioner has spoken, well to identify that, however the self may seem to be manifesting now, that the self is a whole being with aspects of its being which may not be manifesting as strongly or seemingly at all in this moment. Even the most seemingly hyper-masculine or hyper-feminine among your people contains within the being its complementary opposite that makes the being whole. There are unique ratios within each being.

This important step of merely coming into an awareness of these aspects of the self is a central part of the great work of knowing the self. He or she, for instance, who sees themselves strictly and exclusively as the feminine without masculine—we correct this instrument—without a masculine counterweight within, and vice versa, is not only attached to and identified with the illusion of a separate self, but is not fully knowing the self; and may indeed hold this limitation of belief because there is a repression or fear of that which is not seen.

There is also the possibility of setting the self up as he or she who is one way, unlike their brothers and sisters, who are another way. Which are seen, not as aspects within the all-self which the self is, but that which is abhorrent, to be cast out, to be rejected from the circle of the heart because it is labeled as wrong, fundamentally so.

This is not a recipe to abandon discernment, [or to neglect] to understand one’s values, or to [not] honor what is one’s path and what is not one’s path. Choices that wend your way through the illusion on your seeming journey to that Source—which you in truth never left—are necessary. It is only to say that the heart, in its true estate, is, you may say, the most inclusive place in the universe when it is unhindered by belief of judgment, of separation, of rejection.

All of the universe has home there—whatever the other-self, whatever their actions, whether they show up like the self or not—all beings, and indeed the self itself, is at home in that heart which has learned to release judgment and imposition of expectation upon one another. And that awareness of that all-expansive, boundless love is brought into greater being the more that the self may work these imbalances within.

Which begins with, as we were saying previously, the identification. These may show up in various forms of the catalyst which greets the self. For instance, there is that phenomenon known well to many of your peoples as the toxic masculinity, which is that masculinity manifesting within the self which is not balanced by the inherent feminine principle within the self. It is that masculinity which has become estranged from the feminine within due to whatever misapprehension may have arisen within the individual or the society that seeks not only to suppress that opposing but complementary and necessary opposite principle within the self, but then projects that outwards in the subjugation and diminishment of that principle in the other-self, whether it is the male companions or especially within those who are strongly of the manifested feminine principle.

Coming into an awareness of this imbalance within the self, the self may recognize, if they be upon a path of growth, character improvement and, more deeply, spiritual evolution, that there is an opportunity to look within; to see that which has been pushed out of view; to find where those limiting beliefs contribute to this imbalance within the self; and to allow those repressed aspects of self, or aspects within the shadow, to speak, and to listen to the pain attached to that portion of the being so that more and more of these imbalanced energies may be brought into the heart where, first and foremost, they may be loved, even without quite understanding what the exact proportion and ratio of any given balance is by simply bringing it in to the heart to be accepted as it is.

Which is to say, to accept the self as it is, as a being that is perfect, as a being that has carried such weight due to self-judgment, self-negation, and self-rejection. [This] grants those dynamic energies within the self the opportunity to express, to find their place, that the self may begin the celebration of knowing that they are not just this aspect with which they have identified, but they are its counterpart and much, much more. They are a being of all qualities and all colors. There is service-to-others within the self; there is service-to-self within the self. There are impulses to go left and impulses to go right. There are desires to be with community and desires to be with the self. And all have their place within the self.

It is for you, our friends, to find what it is that you wanted to explore. You designed your incarnations carefully that you could play particular roles and explore particular energetic dynamics. You need not be one gray goo of equilibrium that is equally all things at once in choiceless expression—that is for the infinite being and its infinite awareness, that is also the ground of your being. Upon [your] stage you built a particular construct in order to teach yourself. This construct and all of its limitations and its desires may be honored, but the more balanced that you become, the more free you may be to play your part fully with a heart not closed by the fear: fear of loss, fear of death, fear of this, shall we say, egoic shell that you protect at various costs to yourself.

You may see that which is known as the seesaw as a very simplistic example of this balance whereby, say for ease of illustration, one portion of the seesaw may have 80 pounds upon its side, and the other portion of the seesaw may have 20 such that that upon which the plank is balanced cannot be directly at the 50% or center point of this plank, but can be adjusted left or right, so that there is a greater balance, but without change to the weights themselves potentially. The balances you seek are not always so simple, for they are a fulcrum between multiple converging streams of experience and energies that must be balanced against and with one another.

And before we open to the next inquiry, we would remind those gathered that there are exercises which those of Ra gave for the balancing. These may be exercised, we suggest, at the end of the day, when the commitments have been completed and the self may review that microcosm of the lifetime that was this day just completed, and look upon that which moved the entity, that which stood out and caught the attention, that which caused the pain, and find those energies that the self has determined to be out of balance, that which is dominating or filling the consciousness. Then, within a meditative focus and protected space, the self may accentuate that lopsided portion of the dynamic so that it grows and grows, filling the being, so that it is felt mentally and within the body.

The self, meanwhile, cognizant that it is instigating this process, that it not go unconscious once again and let this emotion or energy, shall we say, take over the self. [The self] is instead witnessing and directing this process, inflating and intensifying it. And when it has filled the being to then allow its antithesis to begin emerging in the awareness.

For instance, the patience and impatience. The impatience can be accentuated to its maximum extent; and once it is at its zenith to then allow its opposite quality to come into being, and in so doing, one can begin to expand the awareness to a vision that, while the self is exploring particular qualities within this incarnation, the self is all qualities. The self is free of all qualities. The self is the awareness which, of itself, has no quality, but which sees all aspects of manifestation within its, shall we say, circumference of vision.

At this time, we would ask if there’s another query to which we may respond? We are those of Q’uo.

Thank you Q’uo, can you speak to the nature of thought? Some thoughts feel like they come from us. Others feel like we discovered them, or they came out of nowhere or from outside of ourselves. What we call thoughts seem like the tip of a much larger iceberg, most of which is hidden from our view. Can you please explore this?

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you for vibrating this query, my brother. For it is a fascinating one which we have no ability to exhaust, or, as with most questions asked of us, do justice to; but perhaps we can provide you with some things to think about.

We would take the seeker back in conception to the, as you may see it, cosmic beginnings of your and our universe; and from this vantage point, see that which cannot be seen. That is that fundamental, ineffable, unknowable mystery of beingness itself—of undifferentiated infinity, without boundary, without beginning or end, without birth or death, without shape or form, nothingness and everythingness.

And from this primordial mystery emerges a thought, that being that this infinity can and will know Itself through an act of will by distorting Itself and commencing the great journey, which you and we participate in, of investing Itself into manyness. You and we and all things, my friends, are thoughts you may say, within the mind of the Creator.

You dwell within a universe that, though it seems to your instrumentation and senses, to be one of material, and a certain number of elements, is, in its deeper nature, also built of and by thought. That thought, in its fundamental focus, is love. This love, acting through free will, tapping the now potentiated intelligent infinity, is the seed thought.

Each thought which passes through your awareness, seemingly far removed from these primordial beginnings, is a distortion and fragment and reflection of this Original Thought. It is derivative, but also infinitely novel and creative. You participate in this process of thought, its construction, and its ability to build and shape worlds; and [your] chart your journey and reflect upon the Creator and the self through your thought processes, as you may see them. As you may see these distortions of love, you may see thoughts as, on a small scale, thought-forms, for while, within the mind complex of a third density entity, thought seems to be ephemeral, abstract and formless, in time/space a thought has a shape, form, and distinction. It is a discrete fragment, you may say, of a larger whole, but is itself, in your holographic reality, that which also paradoxically contains the whole.

Thought is reflective. It reflects an aspect of the Creator within its limited mirror. It is the thought and the identification with thought, and the exclusive reliance upon thought, that creates the moonlit environment through which you in third density move.

The Logos that you are is self-luminous, and lives and breathes in the beingness of the present moment, and is inhabited through the disidentification with thought and the entrance and the abidingness in silence.

But the self unaware, seemingly, of the logoic awareness within the self, has identified almost exclusively with the thought, is both pained and elated by the nature of thought as it passes across the inner gaze. And such is the seeming continuity of the compulsive stream of thought that the self becomes utterly, hypnotically convinced of a separate self.

The self entranced by these thoughts, be they pleasant thoughts or difficult thoughts, repeats a central thought of “I.” It is what the one known as Ramana Maharshi describes as the “I-thought” which has said “I” so many countless times that the self is convinced that there is a free-standing I. It is an I of thought lost in a world of thought. This is not to say that thought is inimical to self-realization, or should be rejected, ignored or suppressed; [it is only to say that] to be identified with thought is to forget, and to seemingly become estranged from the true nature of self.

[Inaudible] thought is critical in your experience, that you, our friends—in examining your relationship with your thinking, and how often it seems to have imprisoned you, and how difficult it may be for you to switch the frequency of your thought—may know what a complex relationship this is, and how impactful and significant are your thoughts. For they spring from and are clues to your beliefs and your misapprehensions. They arise out of these beliefs and have a reciprocal relationship with belief, with emotion, all things looping to keep the self in trance in the illusion of a totally separate being.

We encourage always the becoming aware and conscious of that which one thinks, for you create and recreate the self through the power of your thoughts. You create and recreate the world. That which you experience now upon your planet is a manifestation of collective and individual thought. The lack of awareness and the inability to disidentify from thoughts have created runaway conditions of warfare, of suffering, of degradation of your world; and you are caught in repeating patterns of trauma-informed thoughts, unhealed by love.

And as you become conscious and aware of your thoughts, you may learn to cultivate thought as you would carefully the garden, nurturing, supporting, encouraging that which is nourishing to the self and to the community. And carefully and respectfully guarding against or even removing that which is not nourishing, not through repression and control and means of force, but through acceptance and finding the balance within the self.

Become aware of your thoughts, my friends, and see how and whether love is contained within your thoughts, or anger and bitterness and judgment.

With your thoughts, you may create an inner heaven or inner hell. You may help to open the doors within to that paradise which you seek, or you may seemingly bolt the doors shut upon the darkness of misery and blindness without knowing where the light is that may lead you out of your inner mazes.

To conclude, to speak to the other portion of your query, may say that you are, at once, vessels for thought which may not, in the relative sense, seem to originate with you; and you are that which may generate thought and contribute seemingly new thought to and within your being for your community. An idea or thought may be transferred among your group and shared. Then colored and shaped in unique ways depending upon the unique, energetic configurations of each individual; and discussed and expressed and evolved and made more resplendent, more beautiful a thought; just as all things may be more or less distorted, may seem to contain a clearer reflection of the Creator or a more distorted reflection of the Creator.

We thank you for allowing us to share our thoughts on these interesting questions, and we now transfer our contact to the one known as Trisha. We are those known to you as Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are again with this instrument. My friends, we sincerely appreciate this experience and this opportunity to connect with each and every one of you in this gathering. We cannot begin to fully express how inspired and appreciative we are to have witnessed the connections made over the course of what you call days. What you have generated here in this small community is beautiful and divine and bursts with light in ways that can be seen throughout the universe.

We thank you for this chance to touch upon this group, to be a part of your group, to speak to your queries, and we hope that what we have shared has been of some aid to you and your seeking. Know that we only share as fellow travelers on this journey, and know that we are always at your side. Imagine us, hands holding hands, stride along stride as you walk this path.

At any time you may call upon us for support and know that we are with you. Know always that the Creator is on your side, the Creator that created everything, the Creator that is you. You are never alone, my friends. Experiences such as this can be referenced at any time within your heart. Just look deeply at the love that is within you, and you may recall this divine connection and the truth of all that there is.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group with immense thanksgiving and gratitude. We leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends, adonai vasu borragus.

