Topics: Balacing the fear of conspiracy theories; the source of negative thoughts; the nature of the higher self; martyrdom and service to others; naivety and wisdom.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. It is our great honor to join your group this afternoon, to feel the presence of your love, to know that you all are spiritual seekers of truth with whom we may share information as our service to you as you ask us questions. This is the great journey we are all on. We have been on it somewhat longer than you have, as you measure time, but we are not what you would call authorities that must be listened to.

We would ask you to hear what we say, to feel what we say, and then use your own discrimination to determine what we have said that has meaning to you, and use it however you wish, with your free will. Whatever does not have a ring of truth to the heart of your being, we ask you to discard it, set it aside. If you will do us this favor, then we will be able to speak more freely, knowing that we can give our opinions without providing any kind of a hindrance on your journey, any kind of a stumbling block.

With that said, we would ask if there is a query at this time to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo, I have one. My question has to do with conspiracy theories. In light of the weather events in Asheville and middle Tennessee and Florida, and even, in The Ra Contact, I believe it was that they talked about how the government can control the weather through different devices, and the control of the government through funding of these sites and the wars and other places that they’re funding and how imbalanced that is. How can we better balance our love of people and situations with the fear of conspiracy theories?

I am Quo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. You are asking a query which has many layers of meaning that are related to the very nature of your third-density experience. This experience is one which occurs behind the veil of forgetting so that each entity within the third density is unaware that there is a unity to all things—that all entities, all beings, all of nature, the entire universe, is that one Creator that exists in all. This presents a situation in which many upon your planet at this time seek to do exactly what you say.

Conspiracy theories are a way of life for many within the third density. They are a means by which power can be gained, fear can be generated, love can be forgotten, and each person then is free to be part of a conspiracy that may or may not be activated in just exactly the way it is being told through various sources, and yet can feel that presence of a controlling force, which is what you work with as spiritual seekers of truth.

You who have been able to open your heart and allow the love of the Creator to move through it on your spiritual path have been aware that such conspiracy theories are possible, and yet, even if they are, what can you do about it in any practical way? For it is the practical way of being within the third-density illusion to seek intellectual solutions, ways of controlling, ways of gaining power, of gaining status, of gaining money. These are the beginning steps on the spiritual journey from the head to the heart of the open love that each has shared here today in your round robin.

So we would suggest that if you wish to work most effectively to deal with such theories, that you seek to share your love in the philosophy of the Law of One with anyone who asks you about it, and if they do not ask, perhaps you can drop a seed, but most importantly, you can live your life as a portion of One Infinite Creator which all are, and by living your life with a heart of love that you share with everyone, everyone who may be in control, may be doing the controlling of weather, may be arranging for wars to occur in a certain way, at a certain time, in a certain place. Your part in this great puzzle, this illusion of the third density, is to share love without conditions, freely sharing that which is the heart of your being, the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, Q’uo. Thank you.

I am Q’uo. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Yeah, I’d like to go back to something that I said before that I’ve, you know, felt feelings of inadequacy since I’ve been a little child. And I guess my question is, am I correct in assuming that some of this stuff that you think—this doesn’t work, that doesn’t work, you can’t do that—are these thoughts that have been implanted, or at least reinforced by the negative side? And if, if that’s the truth, then we, we just need to deal with it, as you just said, in a positive, loving manner. Does that? Does that make sense?

I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest that each third-density entity has pre-incarnatively chosen certain lessons to learn within the incarnation that will manifest in a variety of ways. The feeling of lack of self-worth is that working upon the indigo-ray energy center where, when fully activated, reveals to you that you are worthwhile, for you are the Logos. You are intelligent energy. You are the Creator in a fashion which seeks to know that, by programming its opposite, there is within you, you and all creatures, all beings, all of the creation, both what you have called the positive or the negative or the darker side of the self. That darker side of the self is usually a portion in your beingness when you were but a child and that you were learning certain things through the interaction with the adults in your life, the parents, the teachers, the neighbors, the strangers on the street that would give you the indication that you were not worthy, that you should obey as told, that you didn’t have a right to stand up for yourself.

And so, you take this programming throughout the incarnation, and begin to question, just as you have done, if there is ever anything that you can do perfectly right. And it is hard to realize that by doing things that do not seem right, one after another, you are still making the spiritual journey into knowing that you also are the Creator, for the Creator gets to know Itself through your experience of feeling the lack of self-worth. Thus, you serve the Creator and yourself by walking this path, and eventually, one day, you will have the realization that you are worthy, for you are the Creator. The Creator resides in all.

If you can pierce that veil of forgetting for just but a moment, you will see it, you will feel it, and you will be it.

Is there another query, my brother?

No. That covers a lot. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question about the higher self, and I wanted to ask if the higher self of one, is higher self to many simultaneously?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. The higher self is what you may call you at a future time. It is located, if space and time has a meaning, in what you would call the sixth density. This higher self has a plan that you have been able to utilize in its creation before the incarnation so that you can discover this path back into unity with the One Infinite Creator.

To the best of our knowledge, each entity has this higher self and does not share it with another, but also has what you might call the higher self’s higher self: the mind/body/spirit, complex totality of the seventh density, which shares information with your higher self that is, in turn, shared with you, so that, at some point in what you call time, you and your higher self, and your mind/body/spirit complex totality, are one being, seemingly separated by space and time; are an analog of the One Creator that is within you as well.

There are levels of your being that you may contact in your dreams, your meditations, inspirations, that will give you guidance on your journey and this guidance is from you to you.

Is there another query, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time we would transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I have a question. How do I separate service to others without being a martyr?

I am Q’uo and am now with this instrument. We would first speak a few words through this instrument in order to help us to warm up to the contact and allow our words and thoughts to flow more freely. And then, if you would allow, we would request that the query be restated at a certain point.

As we perceive this circle of seeking and feel our invitation, that you have extended to us to join you, we would attempt to describe what we perceive as a bright and radiant rainbow containing more colors than you could imagine from your own perspective. The palette of this circle is formed through the sharing.

We pause to allow the one known as Bosco to find his footing.

[Pause]

We are Q’uo and are again with this instrument, and offer our gratitude and love to our friend Bosco, who is a frequent companion in these circles and contributes his own energy of self-assurance and confidence that also feeds the circle, as we have been describing through this instrument, and contributes to the colorful palette made available to us and our ability to speak through these instruments.

The one known as Jim reiterated some of our words during your round robin sharing, and we would build upon the concept discussed in accepting and showing gratitude for those things shared within the circle, both seemingly positive and what might be called negative, both joys and sorrows, the successes and the seeming failures, the difficulties and the happy moments. All of these are valuable and essential to your experience within the third density, and your vulnerability and willingness to come together and share all of these aspects of your being provides an even greater palette of colors that allows not only for us to speak in a more vibrant and meaningful way, but allows you as a circle of seekers to connect even more in your shared heart of seeking, and gain from each other and aid each other so that, as you depart from this circle, you can go back out into your world that seems so troubled and share a more radiant and colorful and impactful light in your desire to serve others and share the love and light of the O Infinite Creator through your heart.

At this time, we would ask if the questioner could repeat the query stated previously.

How do I, how does one separate service to others without being a martyr?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my sister. Indeed, this is quite a common question posed by those upon the path of service to others. For once one discovers the calling of the open heart and becomes sensitized to those needs about one, whether in one’s immediate vicinity, through the family and friends or community, or whether one witnesses the calling of sorrow of your planet and your planetary population, that calling can become very difficult to ignore.

One who has become so sensitized can also become somewhat obsessed, you may say, with this calling of service, and as one inhabits the open heart more and more, it becomes difficult to perceive an immediate need, and then balance that need with one’s own needs. This is not necessarily a universal issue, you may say, with positive seekers, but it is quite common, and we extend our gratitude at the opportunity to speak upon it.

To any pondering this question, we would reiterate something that is likely already known, and that is that the third density that you now inhabit is one that is veiled from the true nature of reality and of the universe. And thus, no individual who has incarnated into third density has a readily available perception of one’s true nature as the Creator, and has no true insight into the nature of other-selves and their own heart as the One Infinite Creator, but instead must listen to this calling that one perceives, the song of service, you may say, and follow this song in faith that there is a purpose to this song; that what you feel calling to you is indeed your path; and that as you walk this path, you will find upon it not just an ability to share your own light, but to be supported upon that path.

This latter aspect we find can often be missing in the perception of the seeker. The path to service in which one may directly serve another can often be apparent when one sees suffering, one can tend to that suffering in practical ways, but it is less common that one can imagine extending themselves in service and finding support for themselves in doing so. The practicalities of being supported in this service are less obvious, we may say.

And this lack of perception can often be rooted in what we have sensed as a theme of the sharing of this circle, and that is a lack of self-worth, a lack of self-image, a belief deep within oneself that one is not deserving of being supported, that one is not deserving of being cared for, that one is not deserving of themselves being served.

And so, we find that often the difficulty of martyrdom comes not necessarily in just the overextending of oneself, but in one’s inability to accept love and service and care to the extent that one cannot even perceive such care being offered to one.

There is also a dynamic present within your third density that, if you are so cut off from your own sense of deserving to be cared for, the very opportunities to accept the care may not present themselves. This is just one aspect of the concept of martyrdom as it is present within the third density. But we offer it first because we find that it is such a common issue and distortion among seekers upon the path of service to others that it should be addressed first and foremost, that one takes into one’s meditations and contemplations their desire to serve others in the recognition that your other-selves deserve your love and care. But then, as you sit with this desire, recognize the reflection contained within that you are no less worthy than your other-selves to receive not just the care of other-selves, but your own care and your own love.

And as you sit with this contemplation and attempt to reflect the love that you extend outward back inward to yourself, open yourself to the infinite potential of the creation about you. Open yourself to the faith that, if you move in service to others and you respond to a need, that you will have your own needs, and if you open up to your other-selves and to the Creator about these needs, then the support that you may need to prevent yourself from becoming a martyr will present itself and open yourself to the infinite possibilities of what this support may look like, for it can be practical in the sense of being nourished by love or by any sensible means, but also by reflections of your other-selves that perhaps you cannot perceive your own limits, and your trusted fellows can help you to recognize such limits and slow down so that, in your desire to serve others, you do not flame out, so to speak, and end your path of service prematurely through such martyrdom.

We can speak no more highly of any seeker’s desire to serve to the extent that they may indeed become a martyr, in a sense, and bring to themselves difficulty and distortion in their attempt to serve. For this is the great purpose of this density: to discover the calling of the heart that pushes one to this level, and to attempt to reconcile the needs of the self and the needs of others with compassion.

It is indeed advanced work for such a seeker, and we encourage patience and self-care when one stumbles and perhaps extends themselves too far, or even judges themselves for not extending themselves enough.

All is well and each step one makes upon the path cannot be wrong. Though it may not always lead to the results that one intends, it always leads to the lesson that one needs in that moment to grow more in their open heart, and by being sensitive to the lessons of the moment, you will find that your ability to shine the love and the light of the Creator in any moment grows greater and greater.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, Q’uo. Thank you.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I have another. Is it naive to the point of harm to think that there are no negative entities in this density, that everything is just a catalyst with a silver lining?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my sister. We find ourselves wishing to approach this query with some level of caution, for the virtue of naivety is indeed quite a powerful and useful aspect to the seeker who wishes to serve others. And we find that this query contains a loving quality of naivety in the attempt to perceive all others and all circumstances and situations as containing the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator, and that there is value in each other-self, for the self, and for one’s journey.

This is a powerful and indeed central recognition for the seeker within the third density, because, as the query implies, it is not always obvious that your other-selves may be acting out of their own pain and their own difficulties; that, when one perceives negativity within the third density, the underlying mechanisms and the spiritual energies present within those negative entities, as they are perceived, or negative experiences, as they are perceived, may not be apparent. And yet, if you could but witness the grand mechanism of the one infinite creation from our perspective, where we are privileged to see not just your limited view of space/time, but the much more infinite view of time/space, you could see the thread of energies that can lead to any other-self expressing itself in a certain way to any circumstance being generated due to a series of various energies playing out and interacting. If you follow this thread from our perspective back to its origin, each one originates within the One Infinite Creator. And so, we encourage any questioner pondering the naivety of such a viewpoint to not let go of such naivety.

But the question also contained a question of how harmful this naivety may be, and that there are certainly entities and circumstances that present themselves within your density that can cause harm and pain and sorrow, and some of these other-selves indeed are conscious of their ability to do so, and have consciously chosen to pursue that path in an attempt to bolster their own polarity in a pursuit of service to self and of control of those about one, of manipulation and maneuvering so that one can gain more power for oneself. This is indeed a reality for seekers in the third density that there are some entities that make these decisions consciously, but there are also many, many more that make these decisions unconsciously.

It is the task and the providence of the positive seeker to assess each other-self with an open heart and an understanding that one cannot know, in the depths of the other-self’s being, where their motivations come from, and how they came to behave or present themselves in the way that they have.

There is a lesson of wisdom that can be learned when one encounters difficult other-selves or difficult circumstances, and there seems to be further disharmony and catalyst generated that, as one works with this catalyst and attempts to understand not just the other-self and where they are coming from, but the self and how the self is reacting to the situation, that some things can become clearer, such as the necessity for placing certain protections or boundaries for the self so that the self is not overly exposed or harmed by seemingly negative actions or circumstances.

But as we have said, we wish to practice caution in suggesting this necessity, for we do not wish to express that such protections should be put in place of the loving, naive heart. The open heart within the third density, and the expression of the love of the One Infinite Creator in any circumstance, is the greatest magic and the greatest protection that can be manifested within your density. And such protection is often built into these expressions of light and love from the self, and it is careful work to discover how one can effectively build one’s own boundaries and protections without stifling one’s open heart.

This is a long and fruitful balancing act that often takes place over many incarnations, we find. And so we again encourage the seeker attempting to find this balance to offer themselves patience as they walk the path of service to others within a density that does not make it easy but is necessary in order to inhabit the next level of consciousness of fourth density. And in doing so, you help the planet itself discover its own nature as a being evolving into the fourth density. We are with you on this journey, and offer you our support and love in your attempts to navigate these murky waters.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No. Thank you, Q’uo.

We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we would transfer the contact to the one known as Jim. We are Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. We would ask if there is another query to which we may respond at this time?

Yes, I do have, I don’t know if it’s a query or a statement that you comment on it when you are meditating and it’s not, you don’t seem like it’s going as you should. I don’t know. I think I’m getting my thing mixed up. I believe I’ll pass, sorry.

I am Q’uo, and we are happy to speak to any query that you would have, my brother. Is there any other query at this time?

Q’uo, I’ll expand on, I think what he was trying to say based on our conversations before the channeling session began. When we’re meditating and we feel like it’s knowing going nowhere, and our mind is racing and this third density is weighing on us, is there a benefit to doing that over and over, feeling like it’s not opening that that heart, that channel to our higher self?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. This is a query which I believe many within the third-density illusion would ask with you, for many do not know how it is that the meditation can affect one, whether the one who is meditating feels it is effective or not.

We would suggest to you, in our opinion, that the intention that you set before the meditation is that which reaches down into the heart of your being, into your subconscious mind, where the Creator resides. And at some point, you will be able to realize that there are thoughts and feelings and intuitions that are being sent to you in a manner that cannot be described in words. But if you are patient and let the turmoil of your mind settle after a period of time—or even if it does not settle, simply open your mind, your heart, the very essence of your being to be informed with this information that is of use to you—then, at some point later in your spiritual journey, perhaps later that day, the next day, the next month, there will be an opportunity for you to feel that expression, that intuition, that image that guides you on your spiritual path. The intention sets the path that you will travel to be responded to by the Creator. The Creator hears every intention, feels every question, responds in a way which you will eventually acknowledge and be aware of.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you, and that was my perspective. I hope that was correct. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question, Q’uo. If a seeker is experiencing a very active indigo activation and does not know what next steps, or [what] to do with the increase in activity in that energy center, are there words of advice for seekers in that position?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. The indigo-ray energy center, also known as the third eye, is that means of experiencing what you would call the love of the Logos that has created all of the infinite creation. This Logos is the Love of the Creator, and it has manifested in those who have activated the indigo-ray energy center in a manner which is much like starting the engine on your automobile that, in future meditations, you may see and feel and imagine the activation to be occurring in a way which leads you on your spiritual path.

This is a path which is full of coincidences and the opportunities to get some feedback or indication of the correctness and the power of your spiritual path. The meditational technique of opening oneself to this information is the setting of the intention to experience that indigo-ray energy center in whatever way is most appropriate for you. For each seeker of truth is unique, and it is your desire to know more about that activation that you feel that will power that center of the indigo ray to become more knowing, more available, more able to be experienced by you in a way which you will discover from time to time as you put the pieces of the puzzle together of how the indigo ray is activating and causing you to feel one feeling, thought, or experience, or another. This is a great path to travel, my brother. It is one which will lead you eventually to intelligent infinity, the activation of the violet ray and the sacred nature of each moment.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

[Pause]

I am Q’uo and am aware that we have perhaps exhausted the queries. We hope that we have not exhausted the attendees by the length of our answers. We would thank each for providing those queries for us, for they are a path that we also follow, and you have given us a great journey today.

The journey that we feel most connected to, of course, is the open heart within each seeker here, for it weaves a pattern of love of the One Infinite Creator that holds all here together as a group and moves then in light throughout the infinite creation so that each here is providing more of that love and light of the Creator to all forms within the creation and to the Creator itself. For we are all one, moving on the journey of love, light and unity.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group, thanking each for their continued following of the Law of One and law of love, the law of unity. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

