Topics: Processing the catalyst of a presidential election; serving others who may be in fear, anger, or despair; exploring the use and purpose of fear; interpreting the Confederation material.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo, and we greet this circle in the love and in the light and in the peace of the One Infinite Creator. We are joyed and grateful to be called to your circle of seeking on this evening, and we are honored to serve in the position in which you call us to.

We discover within the circle this evening, a whirlwind of energies, both difficult and joyous, the lightness of friendship and humor mixed with the feelings of turbulence and difficulty as you, as seekers, contend with the circumstances of the world around you. We encourage you to kindle that flame of lightness as you come together to grapple with and process the catalyst offered to you by the world around you. It is our privilege to be able to join you in this process, and our hope that we may serve as a light in the turbulent darkness for you by offering our perspective removed from the veiled nature of third density, allowing us to see the hand of the One Infinite Creator at play in all circumstances that manifest about you.

We have traveled this journey as well and wish to only offer our perspective in hopes that it can serve you upon your own journey and be the light in the darkness for you through difficult times and through joyous times. And as such, we would ask of you our typical request, that [you understand that] this perspective that we share is not intended to be authoritative or imposed upon you from on high, you may say, but rather that we meet you as fellow travelers along the path, simply sharing our own experience of that journey for you to relate to on whatever terms suit you upon your journey. We do not wish to serve in any way as a stumbling block or a barrier between you and the truth that you seek. And so we would ask that if there are any thoughts or perspectives shared by us that hinder you, that do not serve to empower you, or that cause you difficulty, that you cast these aside and take only those things that can benefit you on your own journey. Take only those things that can be used to serve you, and pay no more mind to those things that do not serve you upon your own journey.

By granting us this favor, you allow us to speak more freely and offer our thoughts in deeper and more meaningful ways with the comfort of knowing that we will not be misunderstood as the ultimate authority in what is best for you on your journey.

We thank you for considering this request, and at this time, would ask if there is a particular query to which we may respond?

Yes. Thank you, Q’uo. The first question, what are the lessons that are available for us as American citizens in the wake of the recent presidential election?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of the query, my sister. We would make some extra effort with this instrument to deepen his state and allow himself to orient his own biases and thoughts and opinions in a way that might allow us to speak in a meaningful way outside of those biases. We pause to allow this deepening.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you and this instrument for this consideration which we find to be somewhat necessary as the topic raised within the query is a very pervasive backdrop for each person within the nation that you identify as America, and as American citizens.

We certainly perceive the timeliness of this query, for the energies available to our perception in the realm of time/space have made quite apparent the energized atmosphere, not just within your portion of the planet, but all around the planet as there is a reconfiguration of power, as it were, and reactions to this, whether they be a rejection, or fear, or celebration of this rearrangement. The disparity and mixture of the reactions and the strength of these reactions make for a very interesting panoply of energies and vibrations.

From our perspective, there is a certain chaos amidst this reconfiguration and this expression, for you—not just as a nation but as a planet—do form a group soul, an unrealized and unexpressed social memory complex, and it is unusual, from our perspective, to see such a disparity within a single social memory complex. And this is where we would draw your attention in addressing this topic: that there is a shared mind, even a shared heart among all beings within the boundaries of your borders and beyond them as well.

For the purpose of this response, we would focus, as you have, on the query that the nation in which you live, what you call the United States, is a particular focus at this moment in time. And so we would emphasize to you that there is an even more specific, shared mind, shared soul among all peoples within this nation, all those who carry an identity and a care and a desire to be a part of what you call the United States of America, to care for this entity that you call a country in one way or another, whether one feels that there are many changes that need to be made, or whether one is proud or ashamed.

All entities relate to this larger entity in different ways, and so you find yourself under its banner, with many other individuals sharing this identity in one way or another. And this identity forms itself as an entity that can be seen as unique and individual on its own. In other words, there is, from our perspective, an entity called the United States of America in time/space that is experiencing a deep degree of inner turmoil and difficulty.

If you have ever yourself felt internally conflicted, or have served an other-self experiencing conflict within the self, you might be able to relate to this entity and understand what it is going through. If you consider the thoughts and actions and behaviors that you express, or your other-selves express, as you are going through a period of internal disharmony and confusion, you might recognize that sometimes you will behave in ways that do not match your heart; that sometimes the confusion you experience within manifests in difficult and troubling ways, and the inner turbulence becomes very apparent on the outside.

And we believe that this perception, this outer turbulence, is what is most apparent to you, but what is hidden from your perspective as veiled creatures within the third density is this inner turbulence that—if you are able to find your own place of silence and peace, and access your own inner guidance and inner perception—you might be able to somewhat perceive this entity that is experiencing such trouble and such difficulty, for even if events and circumstances align with your own joy, you will surely recognize that not all about you are similarly aligned. And taking a closer look, you might find that there is a common heart among the peoples within your nation, that even though there is an extreme polarization of joy and of sorrow, of hope and of fear, that these things manifest amongst the backdrop of a shared heart and a shared mind, and it is simply an expression of this troubled entity attempting to reconcile itself through you as aspects of this oversoul of America.

In sharing this perspective of a troubled entity with inner turmoil and inner confusion, we hope that you can garner some empathy for such an entity. Understanding that there is such inner turmoil will orient your hearts toward care and empathy for what this entity is going through, no matter where you fall within the circumstances of that entity. Imagining such a soul troubled with inner turmoil, this empathy and care can serve as a basis from which you can now reckon with the circumstances about you.

Though you may have many varied reactions to the circumstances of your political arenas, your cultural arenas, and your other various social expressions as a culture, reckoning with those things that trouble you, that create anxiety within you, amongst the backdrop of a strong desire to heal that entity, to bring unity within the self of this oversoul—this perspective is essential. For if it is not garnered as you attempt to address the disparity that you witness about you and correct what you believe to be the less beneficial choices, the potential for harm, the potential for suffering… to do this without resting in the heart of care and empathy and compassion will only further divide and create separation.

And so we speak more directly to what we perceive to be your query, and that as you find yourself pulled in many directions by your outer circumstances, always attempt to bring yourself back to that perception, to zoom out your perspective, if you will, and not view the individual in front of you that is causing confusion or turmoil, or the groups that you perceive as being sources of these difficulties, but instead view the unified entity that is experiencing this inner turmoil and the care that you might feel for it, the deep love and desire for healing that you have for it; and resting in that deep care, return to that more immediate, direct, and smaller perspective and question in that moment, [and ask] “How can I serve that larger entity? What would the best action be in order for me to bring that healing and that harmony?”

This will vary depending on your circumstances and your other-selves, but so long as you can continually touch that heart of desire to heal, and allow that to inform whatever actions and words are discovered in the moment, then the opportunity for your other-selves to witness this larger entity, and to discover within themselves that they also have that care and empathy, becomes ever more possible. The difficulties amongst your peoples can become more easy to grapple with when there are more of your citizens radiating from this perspective; those topics and political touch points that cause conflict can be addressed on a more essential level with a shared goal of healing, rather than individual goal of winning.

This will not be an easy process, and we do not guarantee that within your life you will find the outer circumstance of peace that you are hoping to manifest from this activity. For it is you that must discover the peace within yourself that can then be manifested outside of you.

We commend you to this very difficult task, as we understand that the turbulence of your current circumstances can be quite troubling and disconcerting. This is the nature of third density. It is a circumstance only possible within the veiled conditions of third density. And we hope to offer you a perspective in which this is but part of a process. This unfolds upon a stage of the creation that is ultimately a manifestation of the One Infinite Creator and its love and its light, and that it will play out, and that the love and the light of the Creator will become apparent at some point on this journey. It is available to you now for you to access within the self and to shine within your troubled world, but eventually it will be apparent and obvious to all, and your country and your planet will find healing and unity on this grand journey through the creation back to the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

Yes, to that end, how can we protect and tend to that inner peace while bearing witness to others’ fear, anger, or despair?

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my sister. We would reiterate, as we frequently do, the ever-important foundational practice, the prerequisite, if you will, of a regular meditation practice; for the inner peace that you refer to is one that can only be cultivated intentionally and within the self, and thus you must discover within your life the space and the time and the capability to turn your perspective inward and to discover that peace and silence within.

We understand that in a world that is not only busy but now can carry a difficult vibration to contend with, where there are many contentious energies and even opportunities for service created by those energies, it can be difficult within this circumstance to find the time and to the capability to turn inside. But we must emphasize that, more than any other practice, on a daily basis, no matter the time, no matter how much time you have to give, that to sit down and to turn inward and to seek the peace within yourself, discovered within the silence of the self, is more important in such circumstances than in any other kind of circumstance.

And once such a practice is developed and maintained, to continue it builds a sort of sanctum within the self. If you view this sanctum as an inner room, a place of peace, then the continual returning to this place allows you to fortify its foundation, to strengthen its walls, to shine and clean its windows, to sanctify it and to make it a truly holy place, where, as you continue to return the peace that you find there, it becomes more and more an essence of your being. This room within the self will seem not so far away and will be more easily accessible. The path to that peace becomes more and more available to you, no matter your outer circumstances.

And so, after developing such a practice, we can recommend further implementing the practice of prayer, particularly when viewing the circumstances outside of you and your other-selves. For the seeker on the path of service to others, the appropriate response to such circumstances is to serve, but you will always find yourself alone again, and needing to process and grapple with these circumstances. And we would offer to you our understanding that prayer, once this inner peace is achieved, is more powerful than you can understand; not necessarily in healing the immediate circumstances, but in emphasizing and expressing to the world your desire and intention to provide healing, to witness healing, to allow the Creator to move through you, so that it can be recognized by those about you.

This reiteration of your intention can then also serve to broaden the pathways of inspiration available to you in moments of need, when you are called to serve, if you have established this pathway of prayer within you. Then those same pathways can be used to discover the truth and the healing that wish to be expressed in that moment in more essential and vital ways, allowing you to be more effective upon your own path of service to others.

These practices are, in our opinion, essential to the question that you pose to us. It is your best tool available to you, to examine your inner world and to find the circumstances inside the self that bring about peace, so that this peace can then be manifest outside of the self. For there is no other way that the outer peace can be achieved without first inner peace being discovered by you and by your other selves.

Is there another query to which we may respond?

Yes, as I understand it, there is in this polarized existence, there is the tool of fear or the use of love, and if these are the functions of the separate paths, is there ever instances where fear is justified or has a purpose or benefit to the path of love or light?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of the query, my sister. We are finding this instrument struggling to maintain contact, and perhaps doubting the ability to channel a response to a further query, and, as such, we would, instead of responding to this query, take our leave of this instrument and transfer this contact to the one known as Gary. And the question then may be restated for us through that instrument.

We take leave of this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Gary. We are Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo, and we send our energy and transmission into and through this being, and greet each in this circle with empathy and care, and rejoicing for your seeking. At this time, we would ask if there is a question to which we may respond? We are those of Q’uo.

Yes, and I will rephrase the one from earlier. Is there ever a benefit or purpose that fear, or concern, or worry has for those path seekers of the love and light, and if so, in what cases does this emotion serve?

We are those of Q’uo and have received your query, our sister. And indeed, there is no aspect of the Creator or moment within the self’s journey that, if oriented or reoriented to, may not offer the seeker a benefit of one type or another; depending, that is, on how the seeker makes use of the emotion or the experience, whether they seek to run away from or run toward it; whether they seek to make an identity of this experience or create a story around it, which does not help to reveal the heart and the essence of the experience to the seeker.

In the specific case of the fear, as with any catalyst, it may be a benefit to the seeker in terms of revealing the limitations of the vision and the limitations upon the realization of the self as the unlimited, infinite, eternal Creator. For example, where there is fear, the self may reliably expect that there is identification with the body and the separate self to one degree or another.

This is not in any way to indicate that fear is a signal of a mistake or lack of evolution, or the wrong answer upon the quiz, for this is a natural function and byproduct, and it is universal across the universe in the veiled condition; for in that condition, you are seemingly cut off from the source of life, from your greater identity in a metaphysical darkness wherein there is much to fear, because nearly everything is unknown. Intentions of others cannot be fully discerned or maybe even trusted; the outcome on its way to the self, or the experience around the next corner, or the very next step on the journey can be predicted and assumed but never ultimately truly known. An unhappy fate may be lurking just around the corner for the self.

Any number of dreams and scenarios within the mind can manufacture something that precipitates the experience of fear within the self and its corresponding psychological and physiological elements that have various effects upon the self—fundamental to which is, depending on the consumption and indulgence and identification with the fear—being cut off, being alone, feeling one’s own power reduced or eliminated, and being also susceptible to manipulation by external sources to the self. Fear also, of course, obscures the vision and distorts the unity of all things into a place that is threatening and needs defended from.

This fear, to reconnect to your question, may serve, on a basic level for its evolutionary purposes as a signal that there is something amiss, that there is indeed a threat or danger or something to pay attention to in the environment, that something needs investigated within the self. Whatever its proximate cause or catalyst, that which triggers the fear becomes of use when the self brings mindfulness and awareness to the fear and allows the experience to be [not only] within the self, but within the container of one’s own awareness; for fear is a very powerful and strong phenomenon, as you our friends know, and is quick to claim hold of the self’s attention and energy and vision and take the self for a ride, shall we say.

So it is imperative to love the self who is having this experience of the fear, and to apply one’s intention and attention to the experience in the exercise of the faculties of will and faith that allows one to pierce through the darkness, however convincing the evidence it marshals forth, however sticky are its tentacles, so that the self may, through trust, see and feel and understand that all is well, and assess the situation or the choice more clearly.

Perhaps there is genuine risk to the self or danger up ahead, but the self has chosen to recognize that, yes, there is indeed fear within, which is alerting me and responding to this experience, anticipated, or imagined, or actual. But I will choose, not based upon this fear, where to place my feet. I will choose, not knowing the outcome, not knowing whether my choice will pan out in the desired direction of travel, but trusting that all is well, that I cannot make a mistake, ultimately, that my catalyst and my lessons will greet me in whichever direction I go.

One can then align themselves more openly and clearly to the flow of energy and destiny through the self. One can hear the intuition more surely and the guidance more clearly. One can open themselves to the support that is available all around. And one can leave behind, or step out of, the small corner in the mind into which the fear would have pushed the self so that the self can outstretch the figurative arms and breathe in freely under the big open sky, which is the infinite within you, always, whatever the outer circumstances. And one can greet the moment with praise and thanksgiving, rejoicing in the power and the beauty of the One, however difficult the seeming outer circumstances.

We are those of Q’uo and would ask if there is a follow up or a new line of inquiry?

There is a new line of inquiry. I pass along this question. In religious studies, there are different ways to read and understand spiritual text, such as through the process of hermeneutics.1 Students of the Confederation material tend to take a literal interpretation of the text when we study and discuss the material, but considering other ways to study and interpret spiritual texts can be helpful for understanding the material on other levels. Can you speak about the process of interpreting Confederation material, particularly ways that we can consider it other-than literal interpretation?

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, our sister, for the opportunity to speak, and our orientation to our own mission and the service which we wish to offer, that we may have the opportunity to clarify that indeed, everything which we say and have said is literal and to be understood literally by all seekers of our words, which is our hope for this message.

We clarify that we were not being literal in this case, only in joking, as you would say, or being non-serious, for we have our information to share, report to make, and story to tell, but we would not wish that any seeker feel compelled or obligated, or in any way persuaded to take each syllable that we would speak or meaning that we would make necessarily literally, for our only recourse, in these circumstances of our attempts to be of service, is to use these approximations for reality, which we have called the sound vibration complex, the communicated word, which of themselves are not the reality, nor do they capture the reality to which they point—or rather can only point, as the proverb speaks of the finger which points to the moon.

So, in a sense, taking the words and their syntax and their intended meaning to be ultimate or final or literal to the exactness of what it purports to be saying can also be to create an opacity to the One Creator which ultimately can only, through the indigo ray, be known by the unknowing.

This isn’t to say that our message has no meaning, or that we intended to speak falsely of that which we know, that which we have experienced; for our hope is to offer illumination and clarity about the nature of the journey and of the possibilities of healing and transformation and of the universe: about you and its densities and the way it came into being in the great sweep of creation.

We never intend to speak falsely, and it is helpful for the seeker or a group of seekers to attempt to parse out what is being said, or has been said, to understand what is the meaning in the words or in between the words, and how does it apply to oneself and the journey? Does it make sense for the self? Does it match one’s understanding? Does it elevate that understanding, challenge that understanding, or seem to regress that understanding?

It is for the seeker to determine how literal to take any of our own words. It can, at times, do a potential disservice to the seeker to read words for their face value and not recognize the underlying melody of meaning, or that which we seek to be evocative of: an ambience of deeper meaning and truth. But, again, we clarify that—when we speak of events, historical or otherwise, and processes and characters upon the stage—we never intend to speak falsely, or less-than-clearly, or in a way which would confuse the seeker or masquerade a seemingly actual or factual story or piece of information as that which is factual without clarifying its metaphorical nature, if it were indeed of that nature.

And in closing our response to this question, we would remind those who read our words that the nature of conscious channeling is such that the transmission we send necessarily streams through an instrument who must translate it for us according to their reception/understanding of that which, in broadband, shall we say, we send. The conscious instrument is bringing to bear their own gifts and their own limitations, their own experience, their own biases, etc.

This helps our message to manifest into your reality through the ground of Earth, so to speak, clothed in the ways of being human. But it may also add inadvertent and unintentional distortion to our message. It is not always a perfect, shall we say, representation of that which we send, which is not to say that it is of no value. We may liken it to the light that is passed through the stained glass window, whereby that light is necessarily and unavoidably colored, taking on the characteristics of the particular pane of glass it passes through so that which was white light becomes red and blue and so forth, myriad patterns giving a different form, vector, and color to that light with the hope that it may be received to illuminate and support and guide the seeking heart as they wish to use this particular ray, or rays of light, and interpret it as they will.

We thank you, our sister, for these incisive questions, and at this time, transfer our contact to the one known as [Austin]. We are those known to you as Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and am once again with this instrument. We thank each instrument in this circle, and we thank the questioner, for we realize that there are variable influences upon the body and the mind of each present. These variables can shift and change, and sometimes may feel more in alignment with the process of channeling and the focus and inner stillness required to do so, but we express our joy to be invited regardless of the circumstances that you find yourself in, for we have no expectations in regards to your own configuration. It is simply a pleasure and a desire of ours to provide our thoughts and our service to you in whatever way we can make it available in any moment. For each moment is perfect and whole, and we find you, no matter your inner configuration, to be divine beings attempting to serve at your highest and best. And we admire this attempt.

We have enjoyed the opportunity to speak through the instruments in this circle this evening, and we encourage each present to continue in attempting to serve others in whatever way is possible in any given moment, no matter what challenges one faces on the outside or on the inside.

We desire, above all, to offer our own service to your planet, but our methods for doing so can be limited in order to preserve the free will and the seeking of those upon your planet. Sharing our thoughts through instruments such as in this circle is a rare opportunity for us to intersect and experience and share in a more direct way; and for providing this opportunity to us, we cannot thank you enough.

And so, we would then take our leave of this instrument and of this circle, and bid you farewell in the same light and love in which we found you in the One Infinite Creator. We are Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.

Hermeneutics explores how meaning is constructed, understood, and conveyed, often emphasizing the importance of context, historical background, and the intention of the author. It is a theory and methodology of interpretation, especially of scriptural text. ↩

