Polarizing beyond 51% in time-limited circumstances; do wanderers become part of Earth’s social memory complex; discerning service as a wanderer; channeling through various groups; using fear as catalyst; forgiving the darkness; working with our guidance system; the importance of present-moment awareness; plant medicine’s use in facilitating present-moment awareness; preincarnational setting of lessons.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. We greet each here in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator that is within the circle and within each being. For that is the nature of the creation in which we all live and move and have our being, the creation of the One who has its influence in each life, in one way or another, that each of us—those here concluded—will experience in their life journey. We thank you for inviting us to your circle today. We have enjoyed hearing your stories of inspiration, of difficulty, of resolution, of moving forward, of growing, of living and loving. This is a part of each seeker and the journey that they are on.

We will be very grateful to attempt to speak to those queries, which each may have for us today. And in the speaking, we will be giving that information which we find might be helpful to the seekers gathered here. If there is any piece of information that does not ring of the truth in your heart at this time, we would ask you to set it aside and forget about it. For each has their own way of moving forward in the journey of seeking. This will allow us to speak more freely, so that we do not present any problems or stumbling blocks on your spiritual path.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Q’uo, I was with a group of like-minded people that were discussing some of The Ra Material, and in that material [in #17.33], it says that, of course, that fifty-one percent tipping point to be of service to others. And they were wondering if it was cumulative. Like the contention would appear to be impossible because we have to sleep eight hours a day. The first twenty-years of your life you’re not really serving others, so it would require one hundred percent of the time providing service to others over a long period of time just to catch up to that percentage. But there’s an implication that we can open our hearts and move into the fourth-density experience and get that accomplished for graduation. Is this a fear-based question, or can you elaborate on how? Do we have to adhere to that specifically or stay out of that fear?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Your great journey of a spiritual seeker in your third-density illusion is to begin to clear the energy centers of the red, a sexual survival and experience; the orange, of the individual relationships with one to another; the yellow, of group energies; and then to begin to open the green ray energy center, the heart. That is the place, the location of the realization of the Creator that exists within all beings. When this realization has been made, that one lives in the creation of the Creator in order to see it and serve it in all other entities, then the ability to do this, the intention to do this is that which makes the, as you have called it, fifty-one percent tipping point a possibility and, indeed, a likelihood.

For the heart energy center is that place where the love of the One Creator flows through each spiritual seeker of truth out into the world about it. And whether there is any particular deed or offering of a material, mental, emotional, or spiritual nature is that which is the determining factor for the gaining of more service to others than service to self or the lack of service. Then when you are able to intend and seek to intend to serve others more than you do not intend, then you are placing yourself in a position of being of service to others in a manner which will allow you to be, as you have said, graduated into the fourth density of love and understanding.

It is the intention that is of most importance. For within your third-density illusion. It is not possible to see exactly how once intentions are manifested. What may be a service to one may not be of service to another. Thus, only what you hope for, what you intend, what you strive for is that which determines your ability to make that graduation into the fourth density of love and understanding.

Is there a follow up question, my sister?

So, my understanding is it’s not a linear process. It’s the majority of the time that we provide that service to others that’s important. Is that correct?

I am Q’uo, and you are correct, my sister, it is that as you have said not the linear type of service but the intention. The making of the promise to the self, to the Creator, into all types of the Infinite Creator’s existence around you, your friends, your neighbors, the environment, the creatures that you call the animals. These are all a portion of the Creator and are that which you may serve by your intention.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, Q’uo. That clarified it greatly. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question. Mine is pertaining to social memory complexes. If a higher-density being is already a part of a social memory complex and they come back here on Earth for third density, did they become a part of our social memory complex, or do they, after the veil is lifted, go back to whatever? Or are we all one anyway? That’s my question.

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Those entities of which you speak, from the higher densities, are called by those Ra, wanderers. For they take that knowledge that they have gained on their own spiritual path of seeking and becoming one with the Infinite Creator and move back through the forgetting process into the third-density illusion. They join what you may call the group energies, or the social complex which has not yet been able to create the social memory complex.

These wanderers are here to aid each entity on this planetary sphere in their own spiritual journey, so that they may eventually become part of a social memory complex that then can move into the fourth density of love and understanding. However, for the wanderers that are here now and have been for thousands of your years, this is a part of their own spiritual journey, which, if they are able to remember that they are wanderers, will enhance their journey in serving others here. For as they serve others, they serve the Creator, and they serve themselves. For all are one.

When they are completed in their process of the incarnation and move back into the realms of the infinite creation from which they came, they will move in service to others, once again, upon this planetary sphere, if that is the, shall we say, contractual agreement made with the Council of Saturn. If the agreement is then for one incarnation only, then they shall move back to that level of experience, whether it be of the fourth density of love, the fifth density of wisdom, or the sixth density of the blending of love and wisdom.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I’m Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo, and I am now with this instrument. We would speak a few words initially to help establish our connection with this instrument, and then we will be joyed to continue receiving queries from the circle.

We reiterate, through this instrument, our gratitude for the circle coming together and joining hearts and opening your hearts during the process that you call the round robin. For it is in this opening of your hearts that you begin to resonate together, and this resonance invites us to resonate alongside you as a group. And we all join together as one being seeking the One Infinite Creator. It was spoken during the sharing that you appreciate the sharing of words from beings beyond the veil of forgetting, for the perspective is not quite as limited. And we must share with you how much we appreciate our ability to connect and share with you, those who have taken upon yourselves the veil of forgetting. The perspective that you gain through this act of forgetting is indeed just as valuable as the perspective beyond the veil, for it allows you to perceive and experience the one infinite creation in new and unique ways that we cherish in our connection with you and helps us to understand our own natures in deeper ways.

At this time, we would ask if there is another query to which we may respond?

My query is in that human experience for those that are from a different place than Earth, how we can discern that and serve as best possible?

I am Q’uo, and we believe that we are aware of the query, my sister. We would ask for a clarification, if you’re asking from the perspective of a being who believes they come from elsewhere and incarnated here in order to serve on Earth.

I speak for my husband, who believes he comes from somewhere else, but does not understand.

I am Q’uo, and I believe we are aware of the query. We can speak more generally for any being who may come from elsewhere and has not yet awakened to this self-understanding and self-reality, and how you, as an entity in relationship with this being, may help to serve them.

We begin with the most basic tenet of service to others, and that is one of acceptance: an acceptance for the journey of each being, whether they are native to your third density, or whether they come from elsewhere, and that they are experiencing a unique and individual journey that gives value and purpose to the One Infinite Creator through this experience, whether or not there are aspects of the being that are forgotten or not yet realized. These forgotten aspects help to inform the journey of the moment and how one relates to each moment, and this generates, what we have called, catalyst. That aspect of the self in relationship with the creation that helps to generate experience for the Creator and allow the self to become more and more aware of the self through these disharmonies, this misunderstanding, and this difficulty of not knowing who you are or your place in your journey. But with each step that one takes and each new catalyst one experiences, the opportunity to become more and more aware of the self through this reflection of catalyst is, indeed, a gift on that journey.

And so even for a wanderer who has incarnated upon your planet or any third density and has forgotten their nature and has not yet awakened to this nature, this seeming disharmony with their experience that they might have, and not understanding where they have come from or what their purpose is, is itself a gift to them on their spiritual journey that can serve a purpose. This purpose may not reveal itself immediately or even soon, as such catalyst can tend to be ignored. And thus, more catalyst is presented, perhaps stronger, in an attempt to gain the attention of this being.

As somebody in relationship to such an individual, we offer the suggestion that in this baseline of acceptance, any suggestion of an attempt to recognize this catalyst and accept it for what it is as a gift on the path. And helping this individual to process this catalyst without offering them more direct answers, but rather simply suggestions and accepting that this individual must come to a realization on their own.

And while you may aid them by presenting information, beyond all things, it is the love and the acceptance and the holding of an atmosphere of the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator that can allow this individual to witness and experience and love their catalyst and love their journey for what it is that will ultimately lead to this realization. You as a person in relationship with this individual may not be able to witness this realization in a way that one might hope. But if this journey, together with this other individual, is taken in faith, then both of you together will ultimately together realize your true natures, whether as native third density beings, as wanderers, or ultimately both as the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, thank you so much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query to which we may respond?

Yes, yes, Q’uo, I have a question. You graciously channel through this group. I’m wondering if you know or can estimate how many different groups you channel through, if any other than this group, and what would be the smallest number or the smallest size group that could receive your message.

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my brother. We can first address a more general aspect of this query and that our service to your planet is not done simply through channeling such as this. We are aware of many who call, whether generally or specifically, for our service. And we make ourselves available in other ways, such as an aid in the meditation and offering inspiration and guidance through the dreaming, or in simply sharing, as best we can, the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator in a concentrated fashion, so that it becomes more available to those who seek and call for our aid.

In terms of our identity as Q’uo and those of Q’uo being channeled through other groups upon your planet, we can affirm that this configuration has and is being channeled by other groups. We cannot necessarily speak to the specifics of how many groups have connected with our energies. For our identity is not always expressed or recognized so directly as we identify ourselves with this group, those of Q’uo. For this specific configuration that we utilize in channeling through this group is itself a collection of other social memory complexes: those of Hatonn, those of Latwii, and those of Ra. And these individual social memory complexes serve in many other ways and many other configurations. And so, the answer to your question can become quite complicated.

However, we can affirm or respond to the aspect of your query of the number of individuals that are able to channel our identity. And we have found, with much efficacy, that a number that we hope for in connecting with any group who wishes to channel our energy, that a minimum of three helps to stabilize the contact and the connection in a way that provides safety.

As we offer our vibration and energy in many general ways, it is possible for one to somewhat naively attempt to contact and channel our energies and make a form of connection with fewer individuals. However, it is our much greater preference to solidify a contact with direct vocal channeling, such as this one, with a minimum of three individuals.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we will transfer the contact back to the one known as Jim to receive further queries. We are Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I have three related questions. In A Course in Miracles, we talk about what is real and what is not real. So, Jesus says through the course that fear is not real and only love is real. So, we’re living in an illusion. How in this 3D reality do we use the darkness to our advantage? Is there a way, a practical way, to look at the fear and the dark and the fear of the darkness within us and within the collective?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Within the one infinite creation, there is only the power of love that manifests as light. And in the universe, galaxies, stars, planets, and entities this is the overriding and undergirding quality that is true, whole, and perfect. In your third-density illusion, you live with other qualities that are aspects that have been, shall we say, worked with in a fashion that may be conscious or unconscious by individuals in groups to create what you have called fear: the fear of not being love, the fear that there is a place where love is not, the fear that this may infect you.

The fear that is so prevalent within your third-density illusion at this time can be dealt with by those who are aware of the nature of reality, being love. And within the meditative state may see any person thing, quality, or place where fear resides and send it the love of the Creator through your hearts that you may surround and engulf that quality of fear wherever it exists with the love that will call to the heart of fear, which is love that has been distorted. In your sending of love to fear, you help to undistort the quality of fear, so that there might be a more clear feeling and perception of love within the world about one.

This is a means of planetary healing that many may use at this time. As there is so much fear that is holding sway within various entities, nations, and portions of Your planet. The fear that exists in so many places, then, may be healed by many of those such as yourself, who can use their meditative state to send the love and the light of the Creator to all places that have such fear. That the call to the heart of fear be made to love, and that love will respond and heal, what once was fear into love.

Is there another query, my sister?

That is very helpful. How does the function of forgiveness play into that with individuals and with the collective?

I am Q’uo and aware of your query, my sister. The concept of forgiveness is that which is based in love or forgiveness is the ability to give love and acceptance where there has been separation or injury or the ignorance of the behavior that has been created that then needs to be forgiven. The forgiveness may be done, whether or not it is asked for. For you are a powerful being, and the Creator has given you the power to stop the wheel of karma, which continues as long as forgiveness is not given or granted.

Thus, when you forgive, whether you are asked for it or not, you exercise this power to stop the wheel of karma for the one who has perhaps wronged you or created dissension or difficulty between you—or has been in your sights, shall we say, looking around the world, and seeing places where there are difficulties and workings of one entity against another that have caused problems that would need forgiveness. If the entities were able to do so consciously by sending the love of forgiveness to them, you surround them with that quality, which they may be able to perceive, so that there is forgiveness and the stoppage of the wheel of karma, which is being created by the disharmony between them.

This is what any spiritual seeker of truth can do to provide the seeds of forgiveness to the world around you, so that they may grow by the love that is called forth by your meditative qualities of sending the seeds of love and forgiveness to all who may need such.

Is there a follow up query, my sister?

Is there a practical way to forgive that darkness within each of our own lives and our own perceptions and our own perceptions of ourselves?

I ’m Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The inner quality of forgiveness and acceptance of those portions of one’s being that have been a difficulty for one, may be achieved again in the meditative state so that you see the quality of yourself that you feel needs forgiveness, you imagine it in its origins within your being, where it came from, how it developed, and how it has affected you in your own life path. Then you look at that picture that you have drawn within your mind in your meditative state, and you surround it with the forgiveness from your own heart to your own beingness, so that you see yourself as part of the One Infinite Creator that has been able to know itself in some degree through that action which you feel needs forgiveness.

For in whatever action you create, you are helping the Creator to know itself. Knowing that—that whatever you do cannot fail to serve the Creator—can give you the farseeing vision to look within the heart of your being and forgive that which you feel needs to be forgiven and healed. Thus, the Creator’s love moves through you to help heal you in any situation which you feel needs assistance.

At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I’m Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. Is there another query within the circle to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo, I have a question. Is there anything we can do to build support with our guides or guardian angels in aspect of helping us keep ourselves in service to others?

I ’m Q’uo, and I’m aware of the query, my sister. And we appreciate this opportunity to speak on this very useful practice for entities within the third density. For many within your density and upon the spiritual path that has taken the veil of forgetting are not aware of the resources available to each individual, particularly because these resources come from a place beyond the veil, where entities are witnessing the life of the individual and wanting to offer aid and assistance. But due to certain limitations that this dynamic presents, [they] must await for the asking before they can offer what they desire to share.

And so we would say simply, at first, the most practical and useful way to begin to develop a relationship with your guidance system—whether these be identified as guardian angels, or your higher self, or simply friends and family on the other side of the veil—it is to make a regular practice of communing with these entities in the sense of requesting their assistance. If this is done in a ritual fashion, perhaps during a daily meditation practice or during prayer, then each iteration of this request reinforces itself and the pathways that can be used by these entities wishing to offer their assistance becomes stronger and more available to these entities. And within your own mind you become more and more open to their assistance in various ways.

There are other methods and practices that can be utilized to help form a coherent relationship that can be understood, and where communication can be shared more directly. These methods are very numerous, and so we suggest just a few examples as inspiration, with the understanding that each individual will have their own specific complex of distortions that make some methods more effective for them. And sometimes even preincarnative choices allow some methods to be more effective than others, for this was the design planned by the individual and the guidance system prior to the incarnation.

A very powerful form of this guidance can be offered as we spoke earlier through the dreaming. For it is much easier and direct for these entities on the other side of the veil to interact in an unconscious or subconscious way with the entity that has the veil of forgetting upon it. The dreaming offers a direct link or insight into the subconscious mind where such communication can be received.

And so we suggest that if you begin to pay close attention to your dreams, and record your dreams soon upon the waking and begin to draw correlations and discover a language with which your unconscious mind communicates with you, you will find within this language and within this communication the quality of your guidance system and information from your guidance system that is relevant to you upon your path. And if this is developed further, you may discover great use in asking a particular question of your guidance system before going to sleep and discovering upon some investigation upon the waking answers contained within the dreaming.

We can suggest another method of receiving communication in that of becoming very mindful of the events within your life that you have called synchronicity, those seeming coincidences that hold great meaning to you, and that strike you as meaningful in a powerful way. If you begin to pay close attention to these synchronicities and allow them to draw your attention inward, and to draw your attention to the circumstances surrounding those synchronicities in a thoughtful way, then your guidance system can use this moment of inspiration, the shock to the system that the synchronicity provides, in order to feed information through such events.

Indeed [they may] utilize such events to help you understand what these synchronicities are attempting to communicate, and offer their guidance to you upon your path in a way that, similar to the dreaming, must be interpreted. But as you practice and continue to interpret these things, a language develops, and this communication becomes more regular and understandable to the seeker.

There are many other methods that one can utilize. And we suggest, beyond our own examples, that each seeker who is interested in developing this relationship test out various practices and find one that speaks to the heart in a powerful way. For every individual has the capacity and would benefit from such a connection as you traverse the difficult but powerful and enriching experience of incarnation through the third density.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, Q’uo. Thank you so much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query to which we may respond?

Q’uo, I have one. When we get caught up in this illusion, we get caught up in this simulation here on Earth. That’s when catalysts come up, which we’re supposed to encounter and process as you go through third density. But when we’re in the present moment, there are no catalysts if you stay in that very second that is existing. Can you elaborate why this is so important to stay in the current moment? It’s been discussed before.

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my sister. Indeed, we reflect that our understanding of your query is our own understanding of the third-density reality in which you have incarnated here, to intentionally experience the challenge of this limited perspective, and to be immersed within an illusion in which you are seemingly cut off from that perspective that sees all as one and sees the purpose of all experience and all catalysts. We understand that within this illusion, bringing one’s awareness to the present moment and recognizing the love within that moment helps to illuminate and shed this illusion so that you can see the creation in the love and the light of the Creator for what it is: just an illusion, a configuration of the love and the light of the Creator that it has generated, so that it can experience itself and discover its love for itself.

Discovering this present-moment awareness within the illusion is a powerful gift to the Creator, for it is within this illusion and this environment that this act becomes, we can say, a challenge or a difficulty. For you have lived many moments up to this moment in which your attention was pulled away, in which your attention was challenged, and you experienced the disharmony that is possible within the illusion.

When you have experienced these things, and then arrive in a perfect moment, where the love and the light and the eternity of the One Infinite Creator becomes apparent, it is a release of this potential that the illusion generates, and that gift is given to the Creator and to the whole of creation. It is a powerful act, and it is this act within the illusion that is indeed the purpose of the illusion.

And this is why we reiterate, and so many of your spiritual teachers reiterate, the power and the importance of remaining aware in the present moment. However, we would point out that in our perception, and our experience in working with your peoples, that remaining within this moment is nearly impossible for each individual seeker upon your planet. Very, very few have managed to achieve what can be seen as a permanent present moment awareness of the One Infinite Creator within the creation.

And so we would point out that this creates a dynamic where you as a seeker wishing to serve others and to manifest the One Creator within this illusion discover the Creator, but then have your attention pulled away by catalyst, and it is this attempt to bring your focus and awareness back to the Creator that is most important. For you won’t always find that it is easy to find that moment of perfection. And it is your dedication in attempting to return to this moment that helps to generate the charge that we have called polarity. It is that desire manifested time and time again, no matter the circumstances and no matter the success of the attempt, that truly speaks to your nature as a seeker and reiterates not only to yourself, but to the creation the desire to manifest the love and the light of the Creator in every moment.

And so, while it is important to remain in that moment as a seeker, the acknowledgement of the reality that this is difficult is itself a gift. And each attempt, once one is pulled away from the moment, to return to it becomes an expression to the Creator of your very purpose within this illusion.

Is there a follow up to this query, my sister?

No, that was beautiful. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we would transfer the contact to the one known as Jim. We are Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and once again with this instrument. Is there another query at this time?

Well, I have a question related to the last. How do entheogens like psilocybin containing mushrooms help us to perceive and experience the present moment that can be so elusive in our, let’s say, unaltered states?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. These types of plant medicines, such as the psilocybin, various mushrooms, and so forth are what you may call consciousness enhancers that move one beyond its normal consciousness to, what you may call, the spirit of the being that is enhanced in its expression through the life experience of the entity using the plant medicine. This allows the, shall we say, veil of forgetting of the unity of all things to be penetrated so that one, in an unique fashion, may see greater portions of the reality of the unity of the creation and one’s place within it as a true spiritual seeker of truth that has found a greater portion of this truth.

This is a means by which many can expand their own awareness in a way that is, shall we say, of a duration of what you call time. It does not last beyond a certain amount of time, but it is effective within that time. It gives to the seeker of truth a means of knowing what is possible for it to accomplish within its normal consciousness if it will seek in a manner that gives it the perception of dedication, of intention, of purity of being able to move in the daily round of activities with the love of the Creator moving through one’s heart to those about it so they are also inspired in some way, whether consciously or subconsciously, to find their own spiritual journeys.

This is a kind of seeding that we have spoken of before that each may do as a spiritual seeker of truth. The plant medicines give you the vision and the perception and the experience that you are one with the Creator in some degree in your life pattern at this time, that you may reflect later in your normal, shall we say, conscious experiences according to your own dedication and setting of intentions to do so.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

Q’uo, I have one more. So if a lesson is avoided or not learned in a particular situation, it seems like it presents itself again potentially in a more challenging form until it’s properly addressed and learned. To me, it seems like it’s our free will in operation compared to our preincarnate of choices. Can you elaborate on what happens between lives after we do this?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. When a lesson that you have preincarnatively programmed has not been learned in a sufficient amount of time and effort by you as a spiritual seeker, there is the opportunity to gain more perception of this lesson as it comes around again in, as you have said, a more intense fashion or feature. This is what is hoped for by your preincarnated choice, so as you seek to learn the lessons, you have more and more opportunities to do so. However, if the lesson is not learned during the Incarnation, then when you drop your body and move back into the light from which you came, you can see that there is more to be done in another incarnation that will once more be programmed into that incarnation so that you may have another chance to find the signpost that was missed and to learn more about yourself as a portion of the One Infinite Creator.

There is also the other possibility, if you have programmed a more intensive type of learning, and that this learning of the lesson has not been accomplished after a number of attempts of having a come around more and more intensely. It is possible that this lesson may [then] be taken from the mind and the emotions and given to the physical vehicle in a manner which expresses the lesson in a manner that reflects the lesson at a certain level of experience of the various chakras or energy centers. The physical body becomes, what you would say, in a state of disease, in a state of distortion, which will hopefully give the mind and emotions a greater hint or clue as to what is necessary to learn. In this way, there is the working of the mind and the body and the emotions in a way that is congruent with expressing the lesson, seeing the lesson, and attempting to learn the lesson.

Is there another query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

[Pause]

I am Q’uo, and it appears that we have perhaps exhausted the queries for the session. We would thank each entity present for each query, for you give us an opportunity to move along our own path of seeking the Creator by asking your queries and allowing us to be of service to you. This is a great service to us, and we thank each of you for your queries this day.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator, which is the place where each of us resides. And the great journey of all of us is to find more and more of that love and light within us to share it with others. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

