Topics: Saying goodbye with gratitude to a dwelling; the aliveness of dwelling places; native prophecies; working together to harmonize and heal the planet; body complex challenges as the vibrations rise; the body as a catalyst for the other-self caretaker; wisdom and love; the perennial hope of quick planetary change and deliverance

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and we greet each this day in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator that is within each and is within the entire creation. Today, we are honored to be called to your group by your desire to know more of your spiritual journey of the process of living a life within your third density illusion that has so many challenges and difficulties that, when they are met successfully, allow you to move forward on your journey. We are those who are also on this journey, and it is our honor to be with you.

We ask you that you look at what we say in response to your queries as our opinion, not as that which is written in stone. Take what is value to you. Leave the rest behind. This is the perennial favor that we ask. For it gives us more freedom to respond to your queries, knowing that you will not take them as the scriptural truth, shall we say.

With that said, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Yes, Q’uo. Can I ask when you leave a place that has been important to you in some way, is it good, is it important to honor or thank it in some way and, if so, what is a good way to thank that place?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my brother. When you leave a dwelling place that you have lived in for some time, it is well to do exactly as you say, my brother, to thank each portion of it, each room, the outdoors, the area that has been close to your heart that you have infused with the love that you live as a part of your daily life.

So this is what is meant by the, shall we say, deconsecration of a place.1 That you take that love, spread it around that area, then see it moving in harmony with you as you move to a new location so that both locations are imbued with the love of the Creator that has moved through your heart over many years, in many ways.

This is what is so important when you are moving and taking with you that which is not only the furniture, the equipment of your kitchen, the bedding, the clothes, everything that you take, but that you take that feeling of unity that is a sacred space that can, itself, through your sharing of love with it, become a higher-density being. For it is also part of the Creator.

This is sacred ground, as you have traveled your spiritual journey there, and this is your loving response to not only take the love but imbue the love even more. And then with that love that you take, imbue your new location, your new house, your new home, your spiritual home where you shall continue your spiritual journey. Therefore, you connect two places on this Earth that have your vibrations of love; that may you, the future tenants, shall we say, give them an unexpected treasure, a kind of gem that has your love in it, a crystal that reflects your love to them. This is one way that you can share more of your love in the moving from location to location.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Thank you so much. That means a lot to me. Is there some sense in which a house or an apartment or a cabin or a cave or other dwelling place can be said to be alive? Is it a living being?

I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, it is true that the entire creation is a living being that most people are unaware of unless they consciously seek more and more information about the nature of the creation and the Creator itself to see that the Creator has made everything out of itself. Everything has a consciousness that is, in most cases, lying dormant, awaiting the awakening that you give it. If you’re in a cave, in a house, in any kind of a structure in which your vibrations may be able to imbue with your sense, the Creator’s love flowing through your heart. Thus, when you are in such a location for a period of time, the nature of aliveness of the Creator’s awareness can be awakened over a period of time. And this is what many of the ancient religions of those who lived in caves were aware of before the concept of the dwelling within a building of wood or stone was created.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we will transfer this contact to the one known as Trish. We are those of Q’uo.

(Trisha channeling)

We are those of Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument. And through this instrument, we wish to honor a quick moment of what you call time, for it has been quite a bit of, what you call, time since we last sat with this instrument in this practice. And so this instrument, feeling a need to reintroduce herself to us, asks that she have but a few quick moments to steady herself, to breathe more deeply, and to welcome us more fully.

We thank you for allowing us this brief moment to establish this reconnection. And we would ask if there is a query to which we may speak at this time?

Q’uo, I have a question about the rainbow warrior prophecies, the white buffalo woman prophecies shared with Native Americans about different tribes, races, different types of people coming together to restore harmony to the Earth. And I was wondering if you could speak on that, where these prophecies came from, is the time upon us, will leaders emerge, and how can we help individually restore harmony to ourselves, to other-selves, and the Earth and all of it together as a whole?

We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware and grateful for this query, my sister. These particular prophecies of which you speak are what you may find throughout recorded history in various costumes and various expressions, but nonetheless are no less valid and no less unique. Those prophecies being ones of these individuals, these thought and spiritual leaders who find themselves on this planet to serve, to serve this planet and her people in ways [that point] toward the true reality of oneness that this veil of forgetting is quite adept at allowing us to, well, forget.

These prophecies are interesting in that the way that your people may see prophecy is one that is either on the horizon or in the [far] future. And while both of those are true, we would like to also add the seed of thought that these prophecies, these steps, these actions, these moments in, what you call, history are also that: things that have dwelled within, what you call, your past. And that these actions and movements towards unity, these pushes towards the graduation into the fourth density can be found at many guideposts throughout time—past, present, and future.

The creation of these prophecies is a bit difficult for us to parse in your language or in your words, but what we can say is that they are born of an energetic desire that is innate in your people to find that core of oneness. It may be unconscious or it may be at the forefront of your experience. But it is that which is natural to your beingness to find ways to connect and serve, not just self but others, in the realization that the connection and service to others is a service to self in a positive way. This energetic vibration that wore these prophecies, these ideas, which seem perhaps outside of the realm of reality, are very much real, are very much possible. And the energetic signature of which they were born is the energetic signature of creation itself. Think of it as a, what you may call, glimpse into the greater truth of the experience. Perhaps that is how inspiration works. These small windows of a reality of something greater than the separation, which you may view through your eyes, which may seem tangible in your hands but is not that which is truth.

And so to your question about whether now is the time or if we are working towards that, we would say yes, and we would say it always has been. It always will be. Every step forward is just that. However, that exists within this larger scale of what you consider time, that which allows for evolution towards graduation, towards movement upward into higher densities of beingness. And so these prophecies, these glimpses into truth, these moments of inspiration, they will seem to be increasing. For hearts are opening wider, more often allowing the self to see that reality of oneness more clearly. Those who can, as you may see it, lead these movements towards oneness already exist here and now. Each and every one of you has that ability simply by radiating your truth yourself, your heart as authentically as possible, allowing the light within you to shine through without stain or debris or shadow to be cast, to fully accept yourself and those around you, and to open your arms in loving service to yourself and those around you.

You, my friends, in the simple act of being, are those leaders. Of course, with every moment in history, there are those who may make the book, if you will. Their names may be printed or spoken, stories retold. And we would say that so long as the mission and path forward is known, no one is more important or more powerful in that movement. And so, my friend, you are a leader. Each person in this circle is a leader. Each expression of creation on this planet at this time can be a leader. One simply must find and discover themselves and their truth, allow themselves to express themselves in their truth with freedom and full acceptance.

And it is through those exercises of acceptance, forgiveness, and genuine love that the loving vibrations which propel this movement are more deeply felt within this planet, that healing can occur, not just for Gaia, but, cosmically, universally, my friends.

We understand that this period of, what you call, time can seem stressful. We heard [in your round robin] the sharings of sadness and tears and desiring to release those emotions for the planet as a whole. That is a service within itself, and we do feel for you that you may experience these catalytic times. But we assure you, the light is always there, and you have support cosmically that you can always call upon. And perhaps the greatest guide one can have is the full faith of your truth, of standing firm in that faith, and knowing genuinely and deeply that all is well, that all is as it should be. And with that loving embrace towards that which may come, one may more fully accept and see the positive movement forward that each and every one of you take.

We understand if this answer perhaps does not treat what may be seen as, what you may call, illness or challenge that you experience on this planet. But we assure you that these actions can heal, and that you are on a path towards healing. You cannot help but be of service and to do positive actions unto this universe in ways that heal it.

And so, my sister, we would like to ask if there is a follow-up or a topic on this question to which we may speak more fully?

No. Thank you so much.

We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and transfer our contact to the one known as Gary. We Are those of Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we gratefully blend our energies with this circle, touching each of your hearts in the shared purpose of seeking the Creator together. We are perched upon the path from slightly different vantage points, you may say, but the same Original Desire that beats within the center of your heart does so in ours. And together, we move forward upon this great journey through many landscapes in the deepening awareness that we move always within and as the One.

At this time, we would ask if there is a question to which we may respond? We are those of Q’uo.

I have a query, Q’uo. Is it correct to say that as we ascend further into higher levels of consciousness, that the physical vessel that is our body has difficulty or experiences physical suffering due to the holding of more and more light? And if so, what may be done to reduce this physical suffering? Or is the physical suffering a natural catalyst that occurs, causing the entity to seek further within itself?

We are those of Q’uo and have received this query, my sister, and we thank you for its articulation and the examination that you have invested into this query, which is evident in its construction.

Indeed, the physical vehicle, the yellow-ray activated body is that through which you manifest in your third-density illusion. It is that which can be disregarded, debased, or controlled on one end, and that which, upon contact with the sacred dimensions of life, [can be] understood to be that holy temple through which the seeming you-as-the-individual and the Creator commune. You are at once greater than and beyond the body, but simultaneously inextricably intertwined with this vehicle. This balanced awareness of understanding that it is, at once, an outer garment of clay which is not you but is that which is you manifesting as a vehicle of learning, and is that which is to be respected, is an important balance for the spiritual seeker.

As the vibrations increase, as the self, as you say, ascends, there may indeed be various impacts upon the body that manifest in unique ways for the unique individual, depending upon their catalyst, their preincarnational programming, and so forth. The body, as one of your authors has said, keeps the score. And that which has been experienced upon the journey, particularly that known to you as trauma, may be stored, so to speak, in various layers of the physical vehicle and energetic vehicles on a cellular level and onward, such that, at one stage in the evolution, this trauma is kept compartmentalized and distant from the daily experience.

But as the upward spiraling light of prana within the being increases as the energy centers activate and open and receive this upward-moving light, the self may, and inevitably will, come into contact with these fragmented and compartmentalized aspects of the self as they are stored in the body. Indeed, the body may become the field through which this inner drama becomes manifest and is experienced. This may be one symptom of this evolution of which you speak whereby the body begins showing symptoms or signs or indicators of that which is asking to be healed.

And through the interface of the body—the hearkening to the clues within the symptoms, the seeking to understand the self and what might underlie these patterns of the physical vehicle, and how one may heal and accept and relate to the bodily condition with respect—[one] may come into contact with that which was forgotten or repressed, or come into contact with that aspect of the self which is asking for reintegration and healing. And the self may perform this work.

Other selves may find that old ways of dancing in and through the body, in and through your illusion, may no longer be compatible with the higher vibrations of love and honesty and the sacred doorway which the seeker seeks, particularly those substances which are of a toxic nature to the body, or those which may cause changes in consciousness, as you experience it. The sensitivities of the seeker are different. The needs of the seeker are different. This may be one particular way that this variance between the environmental inputs and the subtle energies may manifest.

The self may also, through the body, discover the ability to transmute that which the body may find difficult on one level, but, from a higher perspective, can be seen for its deeper qualities as an expression of the Creator. And we appreciate the insight into the latter half of the question, our sister. As indeed, this is very much true from our perspective: that this suffering or these difficulties are not roadblocks put in the self’s way upon the upward spiraling journey of seeking the Creator, but are rather that which is instructive and informative to your growth; and, indeed, is a vehicle for manifesting and galvanizing and purifying that growth.

Not every sensation that occurs within the body is signal; there is also, in terms of that which has bearing upon the spiritual journey, that which may be considered noise within the body. Thus, it is upon the seeker to discern the difference. It is by listening to the body and that which it is communicating to the mind, in its own upward reaching, that the self may perform that which we call the disciplines of the personality: the knowing of the self, the accepting of the self, and the transcendence that leads to the becoming of the Creator.

And in some [other] cases, as well, the spiritual growth of the entity may manifest in a completely harmonious way with the body as the physical vehicle learns to adapt to new perspectives and higher energies and sing with harmony and joy as the self relates to and manifests through the body in new and inspired, loving and forgiving ways.

Whatever the case may be for this specific entity, the body is never at odds with the self, though the mind of the entity may develop such a relationship with its own body through resistance, rejection, suppression, and control and so forth. The vehicle is manifesting that which has not been fully processed by the mind complex [in order] that catalyst may be processed; that the body may serve as a mirror and teaching instrument in that regard; that it too may be an expression of joy.

Your vehicle is not dead matter or [only] a collection or arrangement of cells and organs and processes. It too is an expression of the One that, when loved, respected, brought into the heart—whatever its seeming outer state of health or non-health—may sing with praise and then thanksgiving for the One, whether the self is bound to a hospital bed or has the freedom of movement and dance.

May we ask if there is a follow up query to this question, our sister? We are those Q’uo.

No, I have no follow up. Thank you so much, Q’uo.

And we thank you, our sister. At this time, we would transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am once again with this instrument. May we ask if there is another query to which we may respond?

Q’uo, may I ask a follow-up to the previous query? As I understand the physical vehicle can be an instrument to teach the self, are there also larger agreements in terms of the physical vehicle being a teacher for an other-self? Perhaps in a situation where two selves are in a dynamic where one takes care of the other, and so the original physical vehicle is ultimately an instrument for the other-self and not the self inhabiting the vehicle.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, this is a situation which many of your third-density entities find themselves in. There are relationships that are of various families where there is the need to care for one that is, shall we say, suffering a sickness or an illness so that physical vehicle that is suffering the illness allows the caretaker to perform a service that cares for the one that needs to have done those things that cannot be done by the self, since the physical vehicle has been, in some manner, disabled.

There are so many of these types of relationships upon your planet at this time that it is basically one of the primary ways that people may learn how to give love and care and understanding without any type of giving back any relationship that is so dependent upon another. This is the way that the one who is suffering can accept the love offerings of another and provide that service of being able to accept them so that they may learn more about accepting love, when perhaps in a previous portion of their life they were engaged in giving that type of love to another and learning the lessons of giving without expectation of return.

There are so many that have these bodies for that specific reason that go through various stages of health and disease so that there is the opportunity to give, to accept, to give, to accept, back and forth. This is a way which much love and understanding may be achieved between the two who are engaged in such a relationship.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

We thank you, my sister. Is there a final query at this time?

I have a question. We recently went through session 42 in the Law of One, and it was the discussion of love and wisdom. And so in this discussion about the body, illness, others, etc., can you add anything about how does wisdom come into this with love?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. The love is the foundation stone, shall we say, upon which the relationship between the two entities is built through a period of interaction according to the needs of each, the skills of each, the desires of each. There is then the multifaceted interaction on various levels that include the heart and the mind, and these interactions become that which produce, what you would call, wisdom: the light that shines from a higher perspective, shall we say, and shows how the love has been the primary feature that holds each together with the other. And yet, over a period of time, then, the relationship evolves, so that each can see how light the wisdom is, that which can refine love, can make it more, shall we say, active and perceivable, more ability to learn a lesson that goes into, what you may call, the higher centers of energy so that there are layers of understanding that may be produced by such interactions.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

Q’uo We thank you, my sister. To be sure we have answered all the queries, we would ask again if there is a final query?

Yes, Q’uo. I have a question. In recent months, weeks and months, I’ve noted that a growing number of astrologers as well as channels have been discussing the predicted coming of what they say is a bright flash that will happen on the Earth within imminent times, out to maybe two or three years in the future. And that flash describes a lifting of humanity to a higher-vibrational level. I was wondering if you can comment on this?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that there are various types of being able to look into, what you call, your future experience, to see the possibilities that rest there if certain conditions are continued as they are at the present time. We are aware that even those of Ra spoke of the possibility of such a flash, as you have described it, if a population could tune together in such a way as to produce enough love and light that the choice of service to others could be made immediately, then the planet could be moved into the fourth density of love and understanding.

We find that there are various features to this type of prediction that see layers of possibility according to the interaction of the population of your planet. This type of interaction is one which, at the present moment, is somewhat confused and melded together in difficulties and tragedies and warfare of one kind or another, misunderstandings, and miscommunications within communities, within nations and so forth. There is so much volatility within the population of your planet Earth that is difficult to make a prediction of this kind. Although some are able to see a picture that is drawn upon the stars that may be a possibility. And in the future, it may happen, but we cannot say that it will happen. For there is not enough, shall we say, evidence or information of interactions among your peoples to allow this to happen in a predictable way.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother.

At this time, we shall thank each here that has been so cognizant of our desire to serve that you have given us questions that allow us to do what you call serving others. The service is then transferred back and forth between us, and all of us are enriched, hopefully, by not only our responses but by your queries. And we are grateful for your fastidiousness in asking those queries to build a bridge between us and you, so that we may speak more completely in one way or another.

We are very honored to have been with you this day. You are a bright, spiraling light of love that moves into the heavens and attracts the attention of all those positive entities within your galaxy that know that there are groups like this around your world who gather together to share their love and their light that moves through them from the One Infinite Creator.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group, thanking each again for your love, for your light, and for your beauty of seeking. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

“Deconsecration” likely constitutes more than simply, even if methodically, thanking a dwelling on your way out. There seems to be a more ritualistic, magical element to the practice. For a quick dive into its appearance in the Ra contact, visit the Ritual of Deconsecration page on this website. ↩

