Topics: Clearing the lower energy centers; use of crystals to potentially enhance allopathic medicine; crystallization of medicine; impact of dogma and conception of the Creator as wrathful; the emergence of love from unity; the perplexities of time/space; lucidity in the dream state for navigating time/space; healing in time/space; discovering direction and purpose; ritual of anointing by oil.

(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo and am with this instrument at this time. We are here in answer to your call, a call that rings throughout the universe when portions of the Creator seek a greater understanding of that Creator, and we are honored to answer your call to be with you as you seek to be more and more the One Creator, to see the One Creator and all those about you.

We will be happy to speak to your queries if you will let us ask that you take what we say in any way that is helpful to you. Use it as you will, but if any word or thought does not ring true to you, please leave it behind. In this way we can speak more freely, knowing that we are not infringing upon your freedom.

At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Yes, I have a query. This is something that has been covered before, and G and I kind of shared this one, but I just needed some more clarification, and that is: how do you go about clearing your lower energy centers, especially? I believe I know how to do it and I but I would just like to have a further comment from Q’uo on this, if you would.

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. You are speaking of a process by which each spiritual seeker of truth may unblock and balance those lower energy centers so that the love/light of the One Creator may move into the heart, and you may become able to love each as the Creator, for this is the great journey of your third-density experience.

In order to clear and balance these energy centers, is well to look to each one as a means by which you can balance the energies that you perceive as being within the red-ray chakra that energy that is a portion of one’s sexual experience, one’s need to survive within your third-density world, or indeed, within any portion of the one infinite creation.

This may be balanced by looking at every experience you’ve had during the day, at the end of the day when you are meditating; these experiences that you have had can be placed at the red; at the orange of the knowledge of each other-self on a one-to-one basis, acceptance of yourself; and in the yellow ray of the group energies, where you participate in groups such as this one.

And the balancing is that looking at what is called the catalyst, the food for growth that helps you to change, to unblock the centers, and looking at any particular experience that you have had and placing it at the proper energy center—the red, the orange, the yellow—and then see that experience once again and allow it to get larger so that it is over-emphasized in a manner which gives more potency to the experience. And for just a moment, then allow the opposite of that to form itself in a manner which grows on its own, so that you are able to have a balance of these two views of your experience, and then to see them as a portion of the Creator that is knowing Itself through you, through your experience.

That is a way that you can become a greater portion of the Creator the more you do this balancing exercise on a daily basis, if possible, so that you become more and more that which you seek—that is the One Infinite Creator, a 360-degree being that is all that there is. Each of you is also a portion of that One Creator that is all that there is. You are a small creator at this time, but the more you do these balancing exercises, the greater the nature of your creatorship will grow and grow.

This could be the process of a lifetime, or even many lifetimes, but it is a journey well worth taking. Each step brings you closer and closer to knowledge of the One Creator in all things within yourself in your spiritual path.

Is there a further query my brother?

No. Thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

Yes, Q’uo, I’m aware of how crystals can be used by a healer to heal physical illnesses of another person. Is it possible for crystals to be used to increase the potency of man-made medicines so that they work more powerfully?

I am Q’uo, and I’m aware of your query, my brother. The use of the crystal is the putting into motion of the nature of the one who uses the crystal, which is to say the use of the crystal must be charged by the one who is using the crystal for whatever purpose it is to be used. Thus it is your ability to charge the crystal with your desire to increase the potency of the healing medicines, or of the thoughts of the actions, the beingness of the one who needs the medicine.

The type of medicine that is used in conjunction with the crystal is merely the means by which the healing energy is transferred to the one who would seek and need the healing. Thus, the medicines are simply a means of transmission of your ability to see and feel the energies of the One Creator moving through you to the one needing the healing.

Is there a further query my brother?

I can’t help but ask, is it possible for medicines to be crystallized in the way a person can?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is something that is very unlikely, in our opinion, but we are not without failure in our ability to perceive the correct portion of a journey of any spiritual seeker. But it would seem that the medicine itself being crystallized would simply be crystallizing the paper upon which the message has been written. If the person needing the healing is open to such a need for healing, this could be used as a means of healing. It is something that much consideration would need to be taken by the one seeking to offer the healing.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No. Thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother.

At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Austin. We are those of Q’uo.

(Austin channeling)

I am Q’uo and am now with this instrument. We thank this instrument for his fastidiousness in the challenging process, and we thank this circle for engaging in the process of tuning as a circle of seekers and offering your hearts full and open to this circle. These processes help to generate a certain type of field when you meet together in the physical. And as you come together and tune and generate this field, it is charged with a certain magic that allows for us to more fully meet with you and integrate into this circle of seeking. The process of seeking together has a cumulative effect, as you are aware, and through this effect we are more able to speak through these instruments and share our perspective from what you would call the other side of the veil.

It is your integrity and openness in engaging with this process of tuning and sharing through your round robin, through your open-hearted joy in meeting with your fellows, through your embodying and taking in the music together in shared vibration—these things, we notice, bring great joy, despite all individuals coming here with a variety of experiences. But together, as you have experienced, the troubles and the sorrows, though they do not disappear, melt into the love that you share here, and you are more able to see their proper place as gifts and as stations upon your journey.

We encourage you to sink deeper into this feeling of fellowship as a circle. And we will join you in this process as we continue to offer our perspective on the queries that you have brought today.

At this time, we would ask if there is another query to which we may respond?

Yes, Q’uo a background to my question is this, a number of spiritual traditions believe that people create their own realities by their focus and what they believe in. In the case of traditional churches, people are directed to accept the theologies of their particular denominational church. My question is this: do people who deeply accept, for example, the concept of God as wrathful judge, do they harm their spiritual development by holding these beliefs?

I am Q’uo and am aware of the query, my brother. We find this query interesting and complicated, and we will do our best to address the various metaphysical dynamics present within the query.

We would begin by speaking to the notion of harm, as you have presented it within the query, and remind all seekers that there are no mistakes, though there are surprises; and ultimately, there can be no harm in the eyes of the Creator. All beliefs, all experiences, have their proper place in the journey of each seeker. And as you may have experienced yourself, such beliefs and experiences that bring about things that seem to be harmful or painful or increase suffering and distortion, in retrospect, were experiences attempting to offer a gift or a new perspective, and that these things were simply not viewed with the lightness of truth of what they were offering.

And so from this perspective, we would say that, indeed, such beliefs as you have identified do not cause harm in that sense. However, we understand your query to be more focused upon the individual journey and the experiences of the individual and how they can better engage with their spiritual journey to reveal more and more the truth of the One Infinite Creator, instead of hiding it. We would say that in such systems of belief and religions as you have described, the dogmatic approach of instilling very rigid, specific, and, we would say, vengeful beliefs does indeed act to hide more and more of the true nature of the Creator and of the creation [such] that these systems can impose certain distortions upon the individual within them; they can cause a blindness to the love that is inherent in the Creator and in what these systems might call God; and instead replace that love with something more human, you may say, something less inclusive.

This idea that you have presented in the query of beliefs, creating one’s reality, becomes quite charged and important in this scenario. For in such a situation, you do not have a single seeker contemplating her own beliefs and her own ideas, and using thought to create certain realities for herself. But rather, large, vast groups of seekers, entering into magical, ritualistic environments and engaging in a system of reiterating and reinforcing these beliefs that can hide the nature of the Creator to the seeker while pretending, you may say, to reveal more of the Creator to the seeker.

And as these groups meet together and engage in a worship that is absent of love and acceptance, they do indeed build certain structures, you may say, in time/space that have a lasting effect, not just for that group of seekers, but for your entire planetary population. These crystallized beliefs that are reinforced through religious dogma become what you might call institutions within the realm of your time/space which impose an effect upon all seekers and individuals on your planet.

It is our hope and our goal with sharing information as we do that we can reveal to seekers whether engaging in such systems of belief, or otherwise, that there are hints and various ways to approach the religion and the dogma that do indeed reveal the truth of the Creator and the love and light that emanates from The Creator; and that, in order to meet God in the heartp, one need not adhere so strictly to edicts passed on from above with authority and vengeance; that these institutions built up are built upon the illusion that you experience, the illusion of separation, the removal of one’s true identity as the Creator that projects it onto something else so that the love that one feels in one’s heart is not seen as the love of the Creator and is more easily dismissed.

We believe that, in such a situation, there is little for you as a seeker to do besides radiate the love of the Creator as you understand it and as you have embodied it in your own life. And in doing so, we have witnessed many, many times upon your planet that—even if it is not apparent to you as a seeker, in that moment that you are acting as a catalyst helping to melt the rigid boundaries and the illusion of separation built by this religious dogma so that it becomes more and more malleable—eventually the seeker can find their way out of this stricture and see more clearly into their own heart [in order to] discover that the God or the Creator that they had thought to be engaging with in their place of worship is indeed found in truth within the self, within the heart, and within the hearts of your other-selves as well.

Is there a follow up to this query, my brother?

No, Q’uo. I am deeply grateful for that response.

We are Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query to which we may respond?

How does love emerge from unity, Quo?

I am Q’uo, and I am aware of the query, my brother. We find that there are various angles with which we could approach such a question. For there is the perspective of the Creator, which in many ways is unity, and the process from which love arises from that primal, fundamental, all-encompassing aspect of the One Infinite Creator. There is also the perspective that you are privileged to experience now within the third density where unity is not apparent, but you may seek and experience it. And from that unity, love arises as you seek it within an illusion.

We would address more readily and easily the second scenario where you as a seeker are attempting to discover the true nature of the creation and the Creator within an illusion of separation. Beneath that illusion lies the unity that you can sense within your heart, but which is not so readily apparent within your lived experience, within the third density. But as you seek this unity, you begin to recognize more and more that this separation is an illusion; that the individual self, that aspect that you call “me,” what has sometimes been referred to as the ego or the I, is indeed not separate from those around you, but connected in the most fundamental way through unity.

And as such, the identity of self grows so that you as an individual realize that the experiences, the joys and the pain of other-selves, though you may not experience them so directly as that other individual, are still your own. They still belong to you through your nature as the One Infinite Creator.

And thus, if this realization is come to through the open heart, love is a natural product of this realization, for you cannot separate [from] an other-self in order to feel anything besides love for that other. The unity that you realize implies care and acceptance and understanding, even if that is not your lived experience.

If you continue to rest in the unity that you sense in your heart and reach with faith outwards, knowing that this unity exists through the illusion of your third-density reality, then there is no other response that you could have to a situation or an other-self besides love, for that is the nature of your connection with all around you.

And it is through this looking towards unity that you might better understand how love comes from unity in the sense of the beginning, you may say—the One Infinite Creator as infinity—discovering the desire to experience and thus starting the process of generating and creating the creation through love. For it is the same lens that the Creator focuses Itself into, the creation that you then look back to the Creator; and that lens is your other-selves, the joy, the lived experience, and the life around you that you are able to perceive. And if you perceive it clearly, if that lens is clean and clear, you then are able to witness the Creator in its infinite glory.

Is there a follow-up to this query, my brother?

Nope, thank you. That was amazing.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as Gary. We are Q’uo.

(Gary channeling)

We are The principle known to you as Q’uo, and we stream through this instrument once again that we may share our humble thoughts and reflections with this circle; that they may serve as some small catalyst for your own inner and outer journeys; that you may not rely upon our words as answers in and of themselves, as that which solves the puzzle or the riddle, but as that which encourages you toward the exercise of your own will and faith that you may discover who and what you are in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.

At this time, we would open for any query in this group. We are those known to you as Q’uo.

Q’uo I’ve always had a problem understanding the nature of time in time/space. In our existence, it’s a straight line, past, present, future. Is there some analogy you can give us that might help us understand how time behaves in time/space?

We are those of Q’uo and have received your query, our brother, and we would preface by saying that these questions have been upon the instruments own mind, as he has found himself struggling, attempting to translate and conceive of an inverse relationship between space and time and time and space. This has not been a strength of his and thus will not make the most ideal instrument for this query, but we shall attempt to work through these conceptual limitations to speak to your query.

And we would say that to begin with, the time/space is an entire realm of experience, you may say, unto itself, inextricably linked with and intertwined with space/time, but [is] its own complete system as well wherein—as you are immobilized, as it seems, in the space/time realm in your experience of time and its one-way moving arrow, as it has been philosophized—in time/space, the inverse situation is true, and that time itself is a dimension through which one may travel and move and visit. It has its own coordinates, you may say, though not quite in the geographical or three dimensions as you may experience it now in the space/time but the position of space is, as is the case with time and your present incarnative experience, much more fixed.

As to a metaphor which may help to clarify the situation for you, our friend, we are not locating that which may shed the light sought. But one may look at the dreamscape for a taste of the time/space realm as it is translated to the conscious mind in the symbolic drama and the projection of the mind into a realm of infinitely creative capacity whereby the self may move through time, may grow in age, may seem to regress in age, may experience youth and old age, may experience advances with time that defy description or explanation; may visit times that have seemed to be, or times that seem yet to come; may move through this field with a fluidity while the consciousness within the space/time experience remains relatively secure.

We would remind each that you are not strictly beings of space/time (that is your physical plane of existence) who travels to a foreign realm, which we have described as a time/space or the unseen or metaphysical realms, as a journeyer. Instead, you are also a being of time/space. You are a being of metaphysical origin and purpose. You straddle both worlds fully with a great deal of yourself occupying this time/space.

It is just a circumstance that a veil has been dropped, so to speak, within your deep mind that creates a seeming partition of awareness and experience between that which becomes the conscious mind and that which in, or more in tune with, time/space, becomes the subconscious mind. For the seeker who begins to penetrate that veil of forgetting that they may begin to perceive and indeed even experience that great realm of time/space, many doors begin to open in the possibilities of work in consciousness.

We are Q’uo, and would ask if there is a follow up to this query?

Thank you, Q’uo. This makes me wonder if I am ever able to achieve my lifelong dream of having becoming lucid in the dream state, can I then explore this part of my being, the time/space, part of my being?

We are those of Q’uo and have received your query, our brother. Indeed, the dream state offers one such portal of experience into time/space and the many places of access or insight that would be relatively unavailable to the waking conscious mind in the physical plane. In becoming conscious in the dream state such that the subjective awareness is not passively along for the ride or witnessing the movie script move before or within the awareness, but may instead choose to direct the journey, to explore, to ask questions of one’s teachers and guides in a more comprehensible way, so that there is a direct, mutually intelligible communication, less subject to the necessities of symbolism and synchronicity and vagary and hint that is the experience of the conscious mind within the space/time realm receiving guidance. Many are the possibilities of the time/space realm.

Is there a follow up query, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.

I always have a follow-up, Q’uo. I don’t usually do two follow-ups, but I must ask this question. Is it, are one of the possibilities of exploring time/space healing an illness or a trauma that one has experienced in the what we would call the past?

We are those of Q’uo and receive and appreciate this query, our brother. Indeed, healing is a vivid possibility within the conscious experience of the time/space realm. For within that dimension of reality one has potentially greater access to the storehouse of information within the layers of the deep mind and the personal repository of past experience that is generally unavailable to the conscious mind, or cloaked from the conscious mind by design.

This is not to imply that one may, shall we say, trounce into time/space in willy nilly fashion, as one may say, and exercise an omniscience and knowing all that there is to know, or receiving any answer which is upon one’s heart. There is considerable discipline involved in navigating [the time/space] realm. That you navigate your space/time of physical realm with the dexterity you do is a function of a great deal of cognitive development within one’s own present incarnation, a long process of trial and error, of receiving feedback mechanisms that instruct one as to how to interact with and move through the space/time realm; this building up from incarnation to incarnation, as one learns gradually to master, to a small degree, the experience of the space/time.

Time/space, likewise, requires, as you would perceive it, time: the elapse of duration and experience to learn how to operate within this realm, how to hold one’s subjective awareness, and exercise interpretation, and to make choices, and to sift through the available data and information and streams of light and energy.

The horizons are much, much expanded in this space, and with care and discipline and sure footing, one may indeed look to those areas within the being that are tangled or blocked or imbalanced, or those areas where there is stored past trauma and difficulty that may remain completely outside of the awareness of the conscious mind due to past defense mechanisms of repression or suppression, or because those areas have become fragmented and split-off. And through access of these places, with the help of one’s guides and teachers, one may slowly, or perhaps in a moment, address these areas of the being with love, with understanding, with accommodation, and deepen the process of healing and integration.

This may certainly happen within, as you would perceive it, an instant, or it may take many such forays into this work; either way, there is ever corresponding work on the flip side, in the space/time realm of experience through which you move between waking and sleeping.

There is needed integration and reflection and a necessity to manifest that which has been learned on the other side of the veil, and to recognize that the self is always one and whole, whatever its modality of experience or seemingly mundane or exotic realms through which it moves.

We would ask If there is a brief follow up to this query before we transfer our contact? We are those known to you as Q’uo.

No Q’uo. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it.

We thank you our brother, and we commend to you this intention of seeking to heal, and we may affirm as well, that which may be unspoken, and that is that the self who has learned to successfully operate within these realms may also offer a healing catalyst to other-selves with care and discipline.

We are those of Q’uo and we now transfer our contact to the one known as Jim.

(Jim channeling)

We are Q’uo, and once again, are with this instrument. We would ask if there is a query at this time that we may respond to from this group?

I have one more question from a friend. So this friend of mine desperately desires to find her authentic path of service. She feels like a caterpillar who has been stuck in her cocoon for far too long, and she fears that she is failing her mission. What advice do you have for wanderers like her who feel lost and without a clear purpose?

I am Q’uo and am aware of your query for your friend. We would recommend to your friend that she engage in the meditative state on a daily basis to ask the very question she has asked you to ask us. There is a vast resource of information within each being that may be seen as the One Infinite Creator that can respond to queries that are asked from the heart. For the heart of all of love is connection between all of us.

And then, when this has been done on a continuing basis, look, then, she should to the events that come her way in what might be called coincidences or synchronicities, opportunities to be of service in a way that can be followed as a trail. This trail leads into the pre-incarnated choices that have yet to be discovered by this friend of yours. This trail is that which is available to each seeker of truth and will lead each seeker to their truth of experience within the incarnation that they have planned themselves, whether they have become aware of it in any fashion or not.

Thus, let the meditative state connect her to the daily round of activities in a fashion that reveals more and more of this journey that she wishes to follow, for it is available to the one who seeks with an whole heart and wishes only to do that which is the purpose for which it has incarnated.

At this time, we would ask if there is a final query?

Yes, Q’uo. This question comes from N. who writes: “I’ve been wondering what symbolic and/or metaphysical meaning is behind the ritual practice of anointing a person with oil. It’s practiced all over the world, so it seems significant, and I recently came across it in the ancient Egyptian story of Sinui, which of course, made me think of Ra. Is the description of being anointed with oil a metaphor for something, and people came to take it literally? Or does oil indeed do something energetically in a ritual?”

I am Q’uo, and am aware of the query. And we would say that the anointing of an entity with that which you have called the oil is a symbolic practice that can allow an entity to become aware of its basic purpose and nature in its life pattern; that is, to evolve in stages that open various of the energy centers or chakras that go from the red through the violet, so that this path is that which is anointed to the seeker that uses or has the oil used upon its body.

This path is that which all seekers travel. The symbolism of using the oil is that which is to make it more apparent, more seemingly magical, which it truly is. For if one believes that this can do that, can lead one upon one spiritual path, then that decision, that affirmation, that intention, can be made real in the life path of the seeker. This is that which all may do. There are various rituals for how it may be done, likened unto the facets of a crystal.

At this time, we would thank each again for being the inspiring seekers of truth joined together with those of like-mind in this circle of seeking today. We are so grateful to have been able to answer your call and hope that our words have been helpful, that our concepts have enlarged your point of view, and that we travel with you on this great journey.

We see more clearly the journey, for we are beyond the veil. We are so grateful for your persistence to seek within the veil that which is the most precious to your heart, the love of the One Infinite Creator, the unity of all creation, and the joy of being with others of like-mind.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of One Infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai vasu borragus.

