(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument at this time. We greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator of which we are all a part. We thank you once again for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking this afternoon. It is always a joy for us to join you, because you are such valiant seekers of truth and offer us an opportunity to be of service to you through attempting to answer the queries that you offer us.

We would remind you that we are not ultimate authorities. We are your brothers and sisters who have moved somewhat further along the same trail of seeking the truth that you find yourselves upon. Thusly we would ask you a favor, and that is to take whatever words and concepts we offer you and use them as you will. If you find any that are not useful to you at this time, leave them behind without a second thought. In this way, we may speak more freely and be able to share that which we are able to share with you today. With that being said, may we ask if there is a query with which we may begin?

Greetings Q’uo. I want to know if you could give us a brief overview of the major portals or initiations between the third density and the fourth density.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The primary portals of initiation as you could call them between the third and the fourth density are somewhat various, depending upon the origin of the entities passing through them.

There are, for those entities who are native to third density and who have not moved beyond it, the more beginning portals that would utilize the lower energy centers—the red center having to do with the survival and sexual reproduction—that would in some fashion allow an entity to become aware of its need to partake in the creative process of its own learning program, and initiate itself in a kind of school of reproducing the knowledge that is within it in its most basic sense.

The orange-ray energy center would be available to the third-density entity that wished to explore the identification of the self and the acceptance of the self in a basic manner, so that there might be an interrelationship with an other-self in an intensive fashion, so that there could be communication that would inspire both to move even higher upon the rung of the chakras or energy centers.

The yellow-ray energy center initiation is that which allows each individual third-density entity, so activating red and orange, to move into an appreciation of how those individual energies may be blended with group energies and expand the reach of the individual mind/body/spirit complex as it moves through its incarnational pattern. The group energies are a preparation for the higher energy centers in that they allow each seeker to be aware of how there is a kind of cooperation that is possible and necessary in order to be able to move further and further along the energy centers as they are in their upward-spiraling line of light.

When we come to the green energy center, we are focused then upon the unconditional love which each entity has for all entities within the creation, for at this point the entity is the creator in miniature, shall we say, and feels the love of the One Infinite Creator for all of the creation. This love of the creation then is reflected in some kind of a challenge, shall we say, that asks of this entity so penetrating green ray or the heart energy center to be able to love that which seems unlovable. This type of an initiation is that which then allows the seeker to look within itself to find the qualities of the unlovable being within itself that are stopping it from being able to so love this entity.

When this is accomplished, then there are various other types of initiations that would expand upon this basic concept of being able to love that which is beyond oneself, that which is not understandable, that which seems to be difficult, shall we say.

As we move into the blue energy center, this is the first center in which the spiritual energies are outgoing and the entity is the Creator expressing itself in clear communication, [including] honest descriptions of the effect of the catalyst it is experiencing, inspirational messages that are spoken from clarity and the unity that is found within the heart. Thus, the blue-ray energy center has a kind of challenge which asks of the entity so passing through this center to be able to find the clarity and wisdom in situations which may be confusing or somehow dumbfounding, in the respect of being able to understand the ultimate reason for the experience.

This is a kind of initiation requires of the aspirant that it will be able to take into its own being the quality which seems to be unexplainable; and when this shadow side of the self is found within the self, to then be able to accept it as the basic nature of one’s being that is, having a kind of grit or determination which is helpful to any seeker of truth moving along the path of polarization.

As we move into the indigo-ray energy center, we come to that center where there is the ability to experience changes in consciousness as a manner of being, so that one is able to become that which one seeks. The being able to become the light, or the love, or the unity of the One Creation then is the challenge that is offered to the indigo-ray energy center aspirant. This center then asks of the seeker to be able to take within the self the greater realms of the infinite creation that have no bounds, that have endlessness, that have infinity, that have immortality, and to be able to utilize these concepts so that the self is able to both experience the infinity of creation and the identity of the self. This is a challenge, which often takes various forms or shapes for each particular aspirant.

In the violet-ray energy center, we find that there is the opportunity for the seeker to begin to feel the sacred nature of each moment of its experience. The initiation challenges [at this level] are to take the mundane, the ordinary, that which is normal and frequently experienced for the entity, and look within it to the degree that there is the seeing the One Infinite Creator residing in each tiny portion of the creation, so that there is no portion of the creation that does not contain the One Creator. This type of an initiation can take various forms; it is according to each individual’s perception and preparation that the form of the initiation will be determined.

Is there a further query, my brother?

One brief query, Q’uo. Can you please describe the portal or initiation relating to surrendering to God’s will and trusting in the benevolence and abundance of the universe?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The initiation of the surrendering of the self to the will of the One is that which is carried out with such an intense desire that it is difficult to adequately describe how this is accomplished. It is motivated and initiated by the seeker itself which has desired this union for a great portion of what you would call time, and has through various means of spiritual expression been able to accomplish a kind of replica or preliminary experience of this unity, so that there is a taste of that which is to come.

The initiation itself is that which can happen in the eye blink of a moment, or in prolonged meditation, or in the daily round of activities, for there is no determining the exact timing or characteristics necessary when the desire of the seeker will have built to such a level, both on the unconscious mind and the conscious mind.

This will and desire become balanced by the faith that such a will and desire will be manifested when the faith is as strong as the will and they move together in union. Then there is the blending of these two strands of rope which is used to take the seeker into the highest realms of the fully-experienced presence of the One Infinite Creator in order to be able to do the will of the Creator, having become one with the Creator, and knowing the will because of that unity between the two that is no longer two, but one.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Is this portal the integration of root chakra energy to crown chakra energy?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There is indeed the combination of these two energy centers, for these two together are those which combined to represent and hold in place the overall balance of the mind, of the body, and the spirit of a spiritual seeker in whatever state of readiness or preparation each may be. Therefore, the root and crown chakras operate together as a kind of centering device that allows this process of unification to occur without the losing of the sense, shall we say, of self on a permanent manner.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question, Q’uo. Often, we have dreams and hopes that seem further than we can reach for reasons of finances or ability, but they still seem extremely real and coming from a right place. Is there a way to access that and bring it to reality when it seems too hard to reach for… too far away? Is it possible that it’s another life that we’re dreaming about down the road?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, for each seeker of truth, there is a dream. There is an image or a set of concepts which are what you might call a guiding star of the life pattern. This guiding star is that which has been promulgated from previous incarnational experiences as the representation of that which may become, for the entity within the present incarnation, a kind of set of guidelines in which the lessons to be learned may be described in energetic fashion.

Thus, when you feel the dreams that you speak of, look then to the heart of the dream within the meditative state to see what that dream is really speaking to you about. What does it represent? How literally can you take it? How symbolically should you take it? Use your intuition and your intelligence together to fashion a kind of response that then perhaps may be able to become a query that you ask your higher self in meditation or in dreams to make a response to.

If you are successful in convincing your higher self of the need for this information, then there will be transmitted to you what you may call a download which reveals the steps necessary to take in order to make such dreams come true. If you find, however, that there is some sort of blockage that stops you from realizing these particular dreams, do not be concerned overmuch, in that such blockages may show you a path to the realization of the dream that may present themselves at the appropriate time. Each thing occurs for each seeker at the appropriate time when the seeker is ready, as it appears you are now.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have one Q’uo. There’s a debate within philosophy and scientific fields about whether or not free will is an illusion, with some people believing that we just have the experience of making decisions, and the behaviors and actions and circumstances are actually just reaction, action and reaction, set into place at the beginning of the universe.

Ra talked about free will being the first distortion, so I get the sense that there might be some truth in the idea—that free will is an illusion—as it is a distortion. And I have a feeling that this has something to do with what you were talking about earlier with the unification of the individual will and the Creator’s will, and I was hoping you could just talk to the paradox of the idea of free will being an illusion, but us ultimately having free will.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, free will is what the universe is built upon. For each portion of the One Infinite Creator that exists because of the freewill choice of the Creator to know Itself has the same free will of the Creator. This allows each choice that is made by each entity within the infinite creation to be able to illustrate yet another way for the Creator to know Itself. When taken in total with the infinity of beings in the infinity of planets in the infinite creation, this information allows the Creator to know itself in ways that are more pure, more varied, and more powerful than would have been possible for the Creator to know if these entities had not been created.

Each entity then, within its own individual experience of moving back into unity with the One Creator, has the free will to move on this journey in whatever manner it chooses: any religion, any philosophy, any thoughts, any way at all may be attempted, may be refined, may be replaced, may be accelerated, may be rested. There is free will in every choice, in every instance, for every entity. Every entity can decide whether or not it believes it has free will. An entity can decide that it does not have free will out of its own free will to make a choice. There are an infinite number of choices that may be made. Some are paradoxical, some are antithetical to further learning. The entity will learn, through trial and error, which are which.

Each entity then, in the choosing of each motion, each word, each thought, in the moment-by-moment experience in the daily round of activities is exercising free will, for there may be a multiplicity of means by which any choice may be manifested, so that when one decides to get dressed for the day, the choice of clothes, have breakfast, the choice of food, the playing with the pet, for how long, driving the car, by what route, going to work, at what job… all choices are a product of free will.

It can be said, however, that in the ultimate sense, one cannot choose not to go back into unity with the One Creator. For eventually all entities will find the path back into unity with the One Infinite Creator, which each entity is within itself, for all is made of the One Infinite Creator. However, this is somewhat more of a semantic problem than an actual problem, for each entity has created its own evolutionary journey within the certain guidelines set forth by the One Infinite Creator.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Yeah… I kind of interpret what you’re saying as saying that all of our free-will decisions are actually sort of the will of the Creator in a sense. So I’m wondering, what is the point, or what is the aspect of the journey at which point we give up individual will and manifest the Creator’s will, if our individual will is also the Creator’s will?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As the seeker of truth moves upon its path of seeking, it is presented with catalyst in the daily round of activities that requires the processing in order that experience may be gleaned from each catalytic experience. This experience then begins to activate each ascending energy center. As catalyst is used in the higher and higher energy centers, there is the opportunity when one reaches the heart energy center to begin to, shall we say, springboard to the higher centers in a manner which allows one to make contact through the indigo-ray energy center with intelligent infinity.

This intelligent infinity is the One Infinite Creator. This Creator resides in all of the creation, within each being, within each seeker, within each moment, and yet, has been unable to be discovered by most seekers until a certain time, shall we say, has come about where experience has been gathered sufficiently to move the entity into the indigo and then violet-ray energy centers.

This contact with intelligent infinity becomes that which blends the microcosm with the macrocosm, the seeker with the One, which it has always been since before time. Thus at this point, the individual will of the entity, though still available as a potential or a possibility, is given over to the will of the One Infinite Creator, so that the entity then begins to move about in its daily round of activities as a vessel or vehicle of the One Infinite Creator, going about the Father’s work, shall we say, being cognizant of the need to share the love and light of the One with all around one.

This is a type of illumination that is most rare for entities upon your planet, although more and more entities are achieving that at this time. The one known as Jesus was able in his lifetime, as you are aware, to move into this type of experience where he was able to say that “I and my Father are one. When you see me, you see Him who sent me.” Thus at this point, the individual consciousness can be set aside, shall we say, and replaced with the greater consciousness which has its place in the unification of all that seems separate, in the healing of all that seems wounded, in the making whole of all that seems broken.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a query, Q’uo. Plant medicines are often used for healing and evolution. It seems that some plant medicines are avatars of aspects of God. For instance, ayahuasca seems to be an avatar of the divine mother or divine feminine. Can you comment on that?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There are indeed various plant entities upon your planetary sphere which have been imbued with the qualities of the various facets of the One Infinite Creator, be they male or female, be they higher or lower, multiple or one. These qualities then are available as a kind of signpost or guide along the way so that the seeker may—by ingesting these plants with the proper attitude and determination and blending of will and faith—be able to experience an expansion of its own consciousness that includes the qualities that the plant exudes, as it is a representation of some facet of the One Infinite Creator.

These plants are found all over your planet and are in most cases (and in most countries) deemed illegal or dangerous, because their effect upon the human brain and mind is not understood clearly by most within the normal society. And this type of thinking or being is that which is a threat to most such entities who do not have the, shall we say, spiritual inclination to find an explanation for the reason for their being upon the planet, other than here to have a job, make a living, support a family, and get ahead.

However, these various plants are known by various shaman and native peoples, indigenous peoples throughout the world, to be various types of pathways to the One Creator that will illuminate the nature of the Creator as the ingester travels the path. There is much of information and inspiration that is possible to be had by such experiences, as you are well aware.

Is there a final query at this time?

No, thank you Q’uo.

I have one last question, Q’uo. Why do you want to talk to us? Why do you want to help us?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. And we say “my brother” quite seriously, because many here are our brothers and sisters, from our very same home planets that are upon the planet Earth at this time, to be service to the population of the planet [which] is trying as best it can to make the graduation into the fourth density of love and understanding. We have a commitment to those entities who are also of the Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow, as are we, and as are most in this circle, that have taken upon themselves the honor and duty of extending their own type of service into the incarnation upon planet Earth, going through the same forgetting process that each entity does upon this earth, so that it does not know precisely why it is here, or what it is supposed to do.

Thus, when we find entities such as this gathered in circles such as this circle and are willing to ask us to come to join them, we rejoice at the opportunity of doing so, for we are reuniting with those of our home planet in many cases. For there are many of us upon the planet Earth at this time, and many from other planetary entities within the higher densities that are here upon planet Earth now, attempting to aid in the harvest, which is a difficult harvest… difficult because there’s so much anger and separation upon this planet at this time.

So we thank each of you for inviting our presence so that we may do what we dearly desire to do, to share with our brothers and our sisters that love and light which all of you so ardently seek and so completely envelope. And we wish you all the very best on this journey of seeking, for you are valiant warriors in the spiritual sense.

This is a difficult illusion in which to inhabit. It is difficult to see the One Creator in every portion of the illusion. It is difficult to see the love that has created the one infinite creation. It is difficult to see the light that is what the creation is made out of. And yet, all of these things are true. And we come to share them with you, that you may use them as your rod and your staff as you walk through the valley of the shadow of death on planet Earth at this time.

It is that walk that you shall continue to walk upon until the light of the fourth density beams brightly about everyone upon the planet, and there is the opportunity for each entity to move into harmony and unity with that light, love, and power of the One Infinite Creator. In that love, light and power we shall now take our leave of this instrument and this group, thanking each of you as always for inviting our presence. It has been an honor to be with you. We leave you now. We are those of Q’uo. Adonai, vasu borragus.

