(Jim channeling)

I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument at this time. We greet each of you in love and in light. We are most honored to be invited to join your circle of seeking today. By being invited, we are able to offer our service to you and to the One Infinite Creator that exists within each soul and each portion of the one creation. As always, we wish to impart to you the basic concept that we are not infallible authorities. We are your brothers and sisters who move along the same path of seeking as do you. We have traveled somewhat further perhaps, and have a wider perspective to offer you at this time, but we would ask that as we offer you any words or concepts, that you use them as you will, as you wish, as you feel is appropriate, and leave behind any concepts or words that are not appropriate for you at this time. If you will grant us this small favor, then we may feel free to speak without boundaries. At this time, we would ask if there is a query with which we may begin.

I have one Q’uo. I’ve been thinking a lot about balancing, how to balance your emotions, things that trigger you throughout the day. But sometimes I have the difficulty of finding what the opposite emotion of what I’m feeling is. Say for instance in traffic, somebody cuts me off. I get frustrated because it seems like they’re not caring about the well-being of anybody else. What is the opposite emotion of that frustration to focus on so that I can balance out these emotions?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. In the balancing process, in which one attempts to discover the wholeness of the mind, the body, and the spirit within the self, it is often well to re-live the experience that has caused you consternation or difficulty in any degree. And then, when you have re-lived that within the meditative state, it is often helpful to begin the balancing process with the concept of love and acceptance for whatever your experience that has caught your attention and thrown you off your equilibrium of the acceptance of the moment. To be able to find love and acceptance within yourself is a good place with which to begin. However, the more effective means of balancing comes not from what you create as a balance to what you experience, but what comes naturally to you as you are meditating upon the original dysfunction or disharmony that you have experienced.

This is a somewhat subtle experience as there are oftentimes a mixture of emotions that come to balance the original disharmony. To perceive which is most helpful is that which is your task. However, we would also suggest that if you are cut off in traffic, shall we say, that it may be that the first balancing emotion will be acceptance of the entity which has so cut you off in traffic. If this is the natural response, then you may allow this response to grow into your consciousness so that it is of a nature of quality and quantity to equal the dissatisfaction or disharmony or anger that you felt after being cut off.

We realize that to allow the opposite emotion to find its place within your consciousness is not always an easy task. Therefore, if it is of enough difficulty for you that you feel inadequate in your ability to balance the original disharmony, we would consider (if possible and helpful) that you would consciously contemplate the kind of response that you would imagine to be that which would balance the original disharmony. We realize that the balancing techniques are not always easy to apply or are not always naturally in motion for each seeker of truth. Therefore, we suggest that if this is the case for you that you consider the contemplation of each disharmonious situation, so that you may begin to cause a kind of original excitation or promulgation of emotions to begin moving through you, so that at some point you may begin to utilize the meditative balancing of the emotion that begins to naturally arise in your consciousness as a balance to the first disharmony.

Is there a further query my sister?

No, thank you very much.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question. I was thinking about how we go through our lives and different experiences and we end up in different places, oftentimes in surprising places that we hadn’t anticipated or prepared for. When I think about where these experiences come from, I think some are preincarnative choices, some perhaps come from our higher selves or our spirit team that is trying to direct us in the right direction, and other times it could come from our own state of mind. Like if we’re negative, we draw negative (like attracts like). Are things actually random? Are there random experiences? Because of all of these things then perhaps we can actually change our mind or do something—that we can steer the events in our lives. That’s my question. Is that possible? Are there such things as random events?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that you have a, shall we say, multitude of possible explanations for any situation that may occur in your daily round of experience. We feel that your experience in each of these areas is a valuable commodity, shall we say, for each experience has a lesson to teach. We would recommend that in order to sort through the possible randomness or indicated potential of any experience that you use the meditative state to allow the possibilities to sort themselves out within your consciousness. For as you meditate, and set your goal as being able to discern what the lesson of the moment is, then those inner guides and friends that you have accumulated in your life pattern may be able to insert into your consciousness the concept which is most helpful at the moment. For as you ask, you shall receive.

You look upon any situation as having a certain kind of flavor, or kind of origination within your mind, within your heart, within your being. As you look at each of these possibilities, you may become aware of the predominance of one over another, as you are meditating upon these various potential explanations for any particular momentary catalyst. To ask for assistance, then, within the meditative state after you have examined the possibilities is to move forward in a balanced fashion, so that you have done work in consciousness yourself to begin to apprehend the quality of the experience that you are now engaged in. This work then may be added on to by your unseen friends, whether they be guides, your higher self, or loved ones who have passed on before you and who have taken upon themselves the task of working with you in such situations. This is a means of progressing that is considered a balanced means of discovering for yourself what is possible, and then allowing those inner guides and presences to filter further the possibilities that you may focus upon the one that is most salient in any moment.

Is there a further query, my sister?

I guess I’m thinking about how to go through life so it’s not so painful. I know that catalyst brings about pain and discomfort, and I’m thinking about how to use that catalyst so that the discomfort is minimized, I imagine. And that’s why I was asking about where catalyst was coming from, and if you have any control over where it goes from there. And I was interested in all of the inner guides and how they could help with that. So what I’m hearing you say is that you meditate on it, and then you can ask your guides to help you with that, and then, because you have to take a further step from there, and that your guides can help with that. Is that what I was hearing?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query my sister. We believe you have correctly perceived the greater portion [of] our response to your question. We would also suggest that according to the potential randomness of certain events, one may consider the possibility (as you had indeed mentioned) of preincarnative choices so that what may [initially] seem random in the moment, upon reflection in the meditative state may be connected with previous choices made not only preincarnatively, but made within this incarnation in your, shall we say younger years, when you had the access to your subconscious mind that is more freely-flowing and available to your use in your meditative or contemplative moments.

The randomness of any moment or event may be seen to diminish as one is able to examine more carefully the point of origin and nature or function of such a random event, or experience, or emotion. Randomness is usually reserved for those who are not more conscious in their seeking process. We find, however, that you are [a] very conscious being that has knowledge, not only of what you have experienced in your past, but [also] the potential meaning for such experiences in your present moment. And in future moments in which the lessons circle, shall we say, or repeat in an upward-spiraling fashion (so that there is more information added to each experience that seems random) you are able to apply more understanding, shall we say, to your perception of repeated experiences that have seemed random in your past. Is there a further query, my sister?

That was very helpful, thank you. I have a related query that… just went out of my head. So I’ll let someone else go while I figure that one out again.

Greetings, Q’uo. I have a query. A lot of the destruction and pain and suffering on this planet has been caused by the distorted out-of-balance masculine. How might we begin to heal that masculine energy to bring it into a more harmonious state?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The patriarchal type of expression of energy has been that type of experience which the recent history of your planet has exhibited in a degree which exceeds the normal balance of such expression, when compared to the matriarchal or feminine nature that each entity has within it, whether it be biologically male or female.

The apparent reason for the masculine expression of reaching and affecting and controlling and utilizing energies and entities (in what could be seen as non-compassionate manners) is a kind of expression of energies that has gained a momentum within most of the population of your planet for the last few thousands of your years. The reason that this type of energy of the masculine nature has been so predominant is that there is a great portion of the population of this planet that has, of necessity, come to this planet to repeat the third-density cycle, having failed to make the harvest on other third-density planets. The harvest was not achieved because there was, at some point and in some degree, an expression of masculine energies that attempted to control the movement of consciousness within the third density of the planet of origin for much of this planet’s population at this time.

This type of masculine energy, which reaches and controls, is that which was unable to effect any kind of movement into the heart chakra, and thus continued in a repetitive fashion to attempt to do that which it had failed to do previously. Therefore, there has been the necessity upon this planetary sphere (for the great majority of the population of this planet) to reassess the expression of the male or masculine nature so that it may be balanced by the feminine expression of nurturing, of receptivity, of awaiting the reaching, so that the compassion within the heart chakra might be released in a manner which allows the greater majority of the population (previously expressing masculine energies) to begin to entertain the possibility of expressing the polar opposite: that is, the feminine energies, the matriarchal energies that are those of the New Age of the fourth density of love and understanding.

These energies have been in abeyance for a great portion of what you would call time within much of the population of this planet, because there was the inability to move in a studied or appropriate fashion the male energies that were then found to be ineffective, and yet still continued to generate their control, hoping at some point there would be the ability to move forward in consciousness. However, at some point within the populations so expressing these masculine energies, it has become abundantly clear in the subconscious realms of the mass mind that this type of masculine energy was ineffective and could not become effective as long as it was solo, shall we say, responding not with a balance of the feminine energies, [but] restricting the expression of energies to that which was patriarchal and controlling.

Thus at this time, there is the movement within the mass mind of the consciousness of most of the third-density entities upon this planet for the reintegration of the feminine, the matriarchal energies that are heralding the New Age of love and understanding within this planetary sphere. However, as you are aware, there is a great residue of masculine energies that are rolling about, shall we say, within consciousness as a block which has lost its place and has no firm ground upon which to stand, or focus upon which to allow the movement forward in consciousness.

Therefore, we find that the New Age of love and understanding that is now having its energies experienced and expressed by greater portions of this population is that of the New Age which is dawning within each heart that is open upon planet Earth at this time. This is a kind of expression of unconditional love, which will continue to grow more and more predominant within the consciousness of third-density entities upon this planet as the transition into the fourth density continues.

Is there a further query, my brother?

Is the cultivation of an attitude of surrender to divine flow useful in healing the divine masculine energy which has a distortion towards control?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, and you have stated this well. For indeed, the movement into the giving of love, the receiving of love, and the adoption of the wider perspective of the feminine energies that are now engulfing this planetary sphere is that type of expression of the self which is more balanced in its potential for realizing the feminine within each heart and soul that needs to be valued and given primary attention within each conscious seeker of truth.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I have a question, Q’uo. Upon passing, when a person passes away here and leaves their body, is it possible to not fall back into the reincarnation process? And is there any such thing as an artificial light?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. As entities within this third-density illusion move through the process of what you would call the death of the physical body, the higher bodies within each passing entity are then activated, so that the form-maker body of the indigo-ray energy center becomes that body which then moves into the light of the harvest, shall we say.

The harvest light is that which is brought into beingness within each entity’s passage of mind, body, and spirit, so that its degree of green-ray energy activation of unconditional love may be ascertained by the light. The light-bringers are those who are from the octave beyond this octave, and are charged with the responsibility of providing the light that can assess each passing entity’s harvestability so that there is the opportunity for each entity then to continue forward in the evolutionary process. The light which each entity walks into measures the energy centers of the passing entity, so that the heart energy center is seen to be predominant in the assessing of the harvestability of each entity. However, there is also the necessity for a balance of the primary energy centers, the red, the yellow, and the blue, so that the entity being so assessed may be able to withstand the impact of the love and light of the One Creator that is available to assess the entity’s harvestability.

There is only the reality of such light that does this assessing for each entity passing through that door which you call death. This type of passage then allows each entity to demonstrate its ability to apprehend the light, to awaken the light of its green-ray energy center, and to shine that forth in a manner which expresses the balance of the other energy centers, as well as the activation of the green-ray energy center.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I have one related to what I was talking about. The experiences as I go through life—sometimes I think that they’re just happening, that I don’t have control over them, what’s going to happen has happened, there’s a reason for everything that happens. So I’ve taken more of a passive approach to life and relying on faith. And so I’m more interested in understanding if that makes sense, and what is faith really, in that regard?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The quality of faith for any seeker of truth is that quality which sees the rightness and the potential for growth in any present situation. The faith that one is in the right place at the right time, doing the right thing, or observing the appropriate portions of one’s being (and how they add to the potential for growth at all times) is where faith is most salient or important for the seeker.

This faith, then, may also call upon the quality of the will that each seeker has within its being to utilize the perceptions of the day, the catalyst of the experience, the potential within each moment to move forward in growth. This will, then, balances the faith so that there is the opportunity for the seeker to exercise its desire, its will, its potential to realize the qualities of faith that have pointed out the possibilities for growth for each seeker.

Thus, faith and will are the rod and the staff that each seeker carries with it as it moves through this third-density illusion, where the darkness of the illusion hides most of the Creator that is within each moment and each entity, and provides the entity, then, a means by which it may ascertain greater and greater means of moving forward in the process of spiritual growth. Together then, faith and will can utilize any present moment to move forward within the spiritual journey.

Is there any further query, my sister?

It’s related to this—your focus on spiritual progress—but then we live in this world; we want to be warm, we want to be fed, we’re interacting with other people and the rules of society, and they just seem to be divergent to me. And I’m having difficulty doing both at the same time, I guess, or focusing on both at the same time. [Laughter] That’s why I was thinking about faith. If you just go through life and things are happening and just have faith that everything’s working out all right, and 20 years down the path, you’re not going to starve to death because of what you’re doing now. That everything is just going to work out fine.

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The faith that all shall work out fine is that which is the foundation stone upon which each seeker may build the spiritual journey, for there are no mistakes for any spiritual seeker. Each seeker grows and changes according to an individual rhythm of expression of intelligent energy or the light of the One Creator. Each seeker has the opportunity and the ability to accelerate this path or type of movement along the spiritual journey as it becomes more aware of how faith and will can use the moment to grow. Each moment is pregnant with possibilities. Each moment has a variety of layers of opportunity that can be utilized, if the will of the seeker is strong enough to investigate beyond previous investigations.

If the desire, the will, and the faith are utilized by the seeker in a conscious fashion (so that there is the potential for greater growth, and is seen by the seeker to be a potential that resides within its own being), then the seeker can take this faith, this desire, this will, and apply it to any present moment. So the fruits of the moment may be more evident to the seeker and the seeker will not only be fed physically in a manner which propels the body forward, but can be fed spiritually, mentally, and emotionally in a similar fashion, so that there is food aplenty for each portion of the seeker’s spiritual anatomy, shall we say. Thus, the seeker itself can determine the rate of progress in its own spiritual journey, according to how it applies its desire and its will, encompassed within the larger facility of faith.

Is there a further query, my sister?

No, that was good. Thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?

I have one final query Q’uo, if no one else does. It is faith and will that help us along the spiritual path of evolution, but it could be said that desire is the fuel of that evolution, fueling both our will and faith and giving them orientation. What about when we lose touch with desire? How do we reconnect with our own desire so that we can know which orientation and direction we need to go in?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The potential responses to this query are unique unto each seeker of truth. For one seeker, it may be that the loss of desire to partake consciously within the evolutionary process will, at some point, bring the seeker to a point of despair and desolation that is of such a strength that there is born again within the seeker the desire to move beyond such despair and desolation.

For another seeker, it may be that the loss of desire is that which is noted mentally and emotionally, so that there is sought inspiration, mentally and emotionally and spiritually, that can once again bring to life the great desire to seek and serve the One who is in all.

For another seeker, the loss of desire for partaking in the present moment of utilizing catalyst and moving forward on their spiritual path may become evident in the reflection of other entities about one that suggest there is a difference in the seeker which seems to have diminished its potential and its appreciation of its own incarnation. Thus, the reflection of such friends of the seeker then mirrors to the seeker that necessity for rekindling the desire within the heart, within the spirit, within the mind, within the being, so that there may be a movement forward once again that provides the type of spiritual sustenance that each seeker of truth truly feels the need for, and seeks within its own being to realize in order to continue the movement along the spiritual path.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you, Q’uo.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there another query at this time?

I’ve got one Q’uo. Earlier, when talking about masculinity and destructive masculinity, you used terms like ‘controlling’ and talked about domination, saying that those were results of the imbalance of masculinity. And I’m wondering how you would describe a more balanced masculinity? What sort of terms or concepts could you relate to a positive masculinity?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, we do not mean to demean the general concept of masculinity. There is much within this concept that can be quite helpful to individuals and societies—the masculine concept of reaching, and affecting, and moving in a certain fashion—various energies that are available for the progress of the society as a whole. Therefore, we would suggest that the more balanced expression of masculine energies that reach and affect would be cooperation with those energies of the feminine nature that are able to provide a broader point of view.

The masculine reaching is balanced by the feminine suggestion of cooperation, of awaiting the reaching, of rejuvenating those masculine energies which reach, and are helpful and hopeful of being able to be replenished by the integration with the feminine energies that are there to receive and to energize, to inspire, and to allow masculine energies to be utilized in a more balanced fashion.There is the joining of the male and the female in the sacred marriage of unity of the One Infinite Creator that is seen then within all entities, so that there is not just one or the other, masculine or feminine, that is expressed in the entities and the cultures that are affected by expressions of such energies in one way or another at all times.

Therefore, we would suggest that the masculine energies that are able to realize they are only half of the solution to any problem are those energies which are more intelligent, sensitive, and liable to move forward in a more balanced fashion to allow both individuals and cultures to also gain from this balanced expression of the positive and the negative, the male and the female, and realize the Creator within each and within all by this expression.

Is there a further query, my brother?

No, thank you.

I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?

I had one related to desire. When you were answering the question related to desire, it sounded like you were focused on the desire for spiritual growth. If we here in third density had that single desire in our lives, then are you saying that everything else will fall into place in this third-density existence? We don’t have to have other desires to direct our lives, just that one?

I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each spiritual seeker within this third-density illusion most usually will begin the seeking process at a very basic level of expression. The desires that are expressed by the beginning spiritual seeker are those that you have mentioned, that are more, shall we say, ordinary or mundane, in the desire for food, for shelter, for companionship, for a profession, for a means by which to appreciate the creation about one. This is a normal progression.

We suggest, however, that when it is finally realized by any conscious seeker of truth that to desire the highest within one’s realm of comprehension the spiritual journey (the union with the One Creator, the service of all, therefore seeking first the kingdom of heaven) allows all else to be added unto one. Yet this seeking of the kingdom of heaven, shall we say, is that which is sustenance itself, is relative and appropriate, is enough for any seeker, for there will be added unto such seeking all else that is necessary for the survival and movement forward of the seeker.

All seekers of truth will eventually become enamored of more than just the ordinary round of activities in the mundane world that seem to hold some relevance on the spiritual path. Eventually, each seeker will realize that there is only one true goal for any aspirant of the spiritual path, and that is to know and reflect the One Infinite Creator that exists within each entity, awaiting discovery by each entity of its existence. There is nothing but the One Creator within all the creation. All the creation has been made by the One Creator out of the One Creator, in order that the One Creator may know itself through every individual seeker of truth, and that every individual seeker of truth may eventually know the self as the One Creator.

At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator that exists within all. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, vasu borragus.

